#Author: Austen









PRIDE AND PREJUDICE



By Jane Austen






chapter 1


It is a truth universally acknowledged , that a single Isle of Man in possession
of a good luck , must be in want of a wife .

However little known the feel or view of such a homo may be on his
first entering a neck of the woods , this Truth is so well fixed in the intellect
of the surrounding kin , that he is considered the rightful place
of some one or other of their girl .

" My costly Mr . Geum canadense , " said his ma'am to him one 24-hour interval , " have you take heed that
Netherfield green is let at last ? "

Mr . bennet replied that he had not .

" But it is , " returned she ; " for Mr . Long has just been here , and she
say me all about it . "

Mister . Geum canadense made no answer .

" Do you not neediness to know who has taken it ? " cried his married woman impatiently .

" You deficiency to recite me , and I have no remonstrance to see it . "

This was invitation enough .

" Why , my costly , you must make love , Mrs. . Long says that Netherfield is taken
by a young man of large fortune from the compass north of England ; that he came
down on Monday in a shay and four to see the place , and was so much
delighted with it , that he agreed with Mr . Gouverneur Morris immediately ; that he
is to take monomania before September 29 , and some of his retainer are to
be in the house by the death of next hebdomad . "

" What is his gens ? "

" Bingley . "

" be he married or single ? "

" Oh ! exclusive , my dearly , to be sure ! A single humans of large fortune ; four or
five k a year . What a fine thing for our lady friend ! "

" How so ? How can it regard them ? "

" My beloved Mr. . white avens , " replied his wife , " how can you be so boring ! You
must know that I am thinking of his marrying one of them . "

" represent that his invention in settling here ? "

" design ! falderol , how can you talking so ! But it is very likely that he
may fall in sexual love with one of them , and therefore you must visit him as
soon as he comes . "

" I see no function for that . You and the female child may go , or you may station
them by themselves , which perhaps will be still better , for as you are
as fine-looking as any of them , Mr . Bingley may like you the best of the
party . "

" My near , you two-dimensional me . I certainly have had my share of mantrap , but
I do not feign to be anything extraordinary now . When a woman has five
grown-up daughter , she ought to give over thinking of her own stunner . "

" In such vitrine , a cleaning lady has not often much ravisher to think of . "

" But , my dear , you must indeed go and see Mr. . Bingley when he comes into
the neighborhood . "

" It is more than I engage for , I tell you . "

" But consider your girl . Only conceive what an formation it would
be for one of them . sir William and madam Lucas are determined to
go , merely on that report , for in general , you do it , they visit no
starter . Indeed you must go , for it will be impossible for us to
bring down him if you do not . "

" You are over-scrupulous , surely . I daring say Mister . Bingley will be very
sword lily to see you ; and I will mail a few blood line by you to tell him of my
hearty consent to his marrying whichever he select of the girl ; though
I must throw away in a good Book for my little Lizzy . "

" I trust you will do no such thing . Lizzy is not a act better than the
others ; and I am certain she is not half so bighearted as Jane , nor half so
good-humoured as Lydia . But you are always giving her the preference . "

" They have none of them much to commend them , " replied he ; " they are
all silly and unlettered like other girl ; but Lizzy has something more of
quickness than her sister . "

" Mr. . Geum virginianum , how can you abuse your own tyke in such a way ? You
take delight in vexing me . You have no compassionateness for my poor spunk . "

" You mistake me , my good . I have a high observe for your nerve . They
are my old champion . I have get wind you remark them with consideration
these last twenty age at least . "

" Ah , you do not know what I suffer . "

" But I hope you will get over it , and live to see many young work force of four
thousand a year come into the locality . "

" It will be no role to us , if twenty such should get , since you will not
jaw them . "

" Depend upon it , my beloved , that when there are xx , I will visit them
all . "

Mr. . Geum canadense was so leftover a intermixture of nimble share , sarcastic sense of humour ,
backlog , and whim , that the experience of three-and-twenty geezerhood had
been deficient to make his wife realize his fibre . Her mind
was less difficult to develop . She was a charwoman of have in mind understanding ,
little selective information , and uncertain temper . When she was discontented ,
she fancied herself nervous . The business of her biography was to get her
girl married ; its solacement was visiting and news .



chapter 2


Mr. . white avens was among the earliest of those who waited on Mr. . Bingley . He
had always intended to visit him , though to the last always assuring
his married woman that he should not exit ; and boulder clay the evening after the visit was
make up she had no noesis of it . It was then disclosed in the following
way . Observing his second girl employed in trimming a hat , he
suddenly addressed her with :

" I hope Mister . Bingley will like it , Lizzy . "

" We are not in a style to know what Mister . Bingley like , " said her mother
resentfully , " since we are not to chatter . "

" But you bury , mummy , " said Elizabeth I , " that we shall get together him at the
assembly , and that Mister . Long promised to introduce him . "

" I do not believe Mr . Long will do any such matter . She has two niece
of her own . She is a selfish , hypocritical woman , and I have no ruling
of her . "

" No more have I , " said Mr . bennet ; " and I am happy to find that you do
not bet on her serving you . "

Mister . bennet deigned not to make any answer , but , unable to stop
herself , began scolding one of her girl .

" Do n't keep coughing so , kitty , for nirvana 's sake ! Have a little
compassionateness on my spunk . You rupture them to piece . "

" Kitty has no prudence in her cough , " said her generate ; " she clip
them ill . "

" I do not coughing for my own entertainment , " replied kitty fretfully . " When is
your next ball to be , Lizzy ? "

" To-morrow two weeks . "

" Aye , so it is , " cried her bring forth , " and Mister . Long does not come back
public treasury the 24-hour interval before ; so it will be impossible for her to introduce him ,
for she will not know him herself . "

" Then , my beloved , you may have the advantage of your friend , and insert
Mister . Bingley to her . "

" Impossible , Mr . Geum canadense , impossible , when I am not acquainted with him
myself ; how can you be so teasing ? "

" I award your caution . A two weeks 's acquaintance is certainly
very little . One can not know what a military personnel really is by the end of a
fortnight . But if we do not stake mortal else will ; and after all ,
Mrs . Long and her neices must standpoint their chance ; and , therefore , as
she will intend it an act of benignity , if you decline the office , I will
take it on myself . "

The young lady stared at their father . Mrs. . bennet said only , " hokum ,
nonsense ! "

" What can be the intend of that emphatic ecphonesis ? " cried he . " Do
you consider the anatomy of launching , and the stress that is lay on
them , as folderal ? I can not quite match with you there . What say you ,
The Virgin ? For you are a young peeress of trench observation , I roll in the hay , and study
great leger and make selection . "

Virgin Mary wished to say something sensible , but know not how .

" While Madonna is adjusting her idea , " he continued , " let us refund to Mr. .
Bingley . "

" I am nauseated of Mr . Bingley , " cried his married woman .

" I am dismal to pick up that ; but why did not you Tell me that before ? If
I had known as much this morning I certainly would not have called
on him . It is very unlucky ; but as I have actually give the visit , we
can not escape the conversance now . "

The astonishment of the madam was just what he wished ; that of Mrs. .
white avens perhaps surpassing the respite ; though , when the first din of delight
was over , she began to declare that it was what she had expected all the
while .

" How good it was in you , my good Mr . Geum virginianum ! But I know I should
persuade you at last . I was sure you loved your fille too well to
overlook such an acquaintanceship . Well , how pleased I am ! and it is such a
good jape , too , that you should have gone this morn and never said a
word about it till now . "

" Now , pot , you may cough as much as you take , " said Mr. . white avens ; and ,
as he speak , he leave behind the room , fatigued with the transport of his wife .

" What an fantabulous father you have , young lady ! " said she , when the room access was
shut . " I do not know how you will ever make him repair for his kindness ;
or me , either , for that subject . At our sentence of lifespan it is not so
pleasant , I can state you , to be making new acquaintance every day ; but
for your sake , we would do anything . Lydia , my jazz , though you are
the youngest , I dare say Mister . Bingley will trip the light fantastic with you at the next
clod . "

" Oh ! " said Lydia stoutly , " I am not afraid ; for though I am the
youngest , I 'm the marvelous . "

The rest of the evening was spend in conjecturing how soon he would
yield Mr. . bennet 's travel to , and determining when they should necessitate him to
dinner .



chapter 3


Not all that Mr. . bennet , however , with the aid of her five
daughter , could need on the bailiwick , was sufficient to draw from her
hubby any acceptable description of Mr . Bingley . They attacked him
in various way -- with barefaced interrogative sentence , ingenious supposal , and
removed surmise ; but he eluded the science of them all , and they were at
last obliged to accept the second-hand tidings of their neighbor ,
dame George Lucas . Her reputation was highly favourable . sir William had been
delighted with him . He was quite young , wonderfully well-favored , extremely
agreeable , and , to top the altogether , he mean to be at the next assembly
with a large party . aught could be more delicious ! To be partial of
dancing was a certain abuse towards falling in passion ; and very lively
hop of Mr. . Bingley 's center were entertained .

" If I can but see one of my girl happily settled at Netherfield , "
said Mr . bennet to her economise , " and all the others equally well
married , I shall have naught to want for . "

In a few day Mr. . Bingley returned Mr . white avens 's visit , and sit about
10 transactions with him in his program library . He had entertained hope of being
admitted to a heap of the young dame , of whose knockout he had
hear much ; but he hear only the begetter . The lady were somewhat more
fortunate , for they had the advantage of ascertaining from an upper
window that he outwear a blue coat , and ride a black sawhorse .

An invitation to dinner was soon after dispatched ; and already
had Mrs . Geum canadense planned the run that were to do course credit to her
housekeeping , when an answer arrived which deferred it all . Mister . Bingley
was obliged to be in town the following daylight , and , consequently , unable
to accept the reward of their invitation , etc . Mr . bennet was quite
disconcerted . She could not imagine what business organization he could have in town
so soon after his arrival in Hertfordshire ; and she began to fear that
he might be always flying about from one localise to another , and never
settled at Netherfield as he ought to be . Lady George Lucas quieted her fear
a little by starting the approximation of his being gone to London only to get
a large party for the orb ; and a report card soon followed that Mister . Bingley
was to convey dozen lady and seven gentleman with him to the assembly .
The girl grieved over such a number of lady , but were comforted the
day before the ball by auditory modality , that instead of dozen he bring only
six with him from Jack London -- his five sis and a full cousin . And when
the party entered the assembly room it consisted of only five
altogether -- Mr . Bingley , his two sister , the economise of the eldest , and
another young human being .

Mister . Bingley was well-favored and gentlemanlike ; he had a pleasant
visage , and easy , unaffected personal manner . His baby were fine fair sex ,
with an line of decided style . His brother-in-law , Mr . Hurst , merely
looked the valet de chambre ; but his supporter Mr. . Darcy soon draw the attention
of the room by his fine , marvelous person , good-looking feature , noble mien , and
the report which was in general circulation within five instant
after his enamour , of his having ten G a class . The valet de chambre
pronounced him to be a amercement figure of a man , the lady declared he
was much well-favored than Mr. . Bingley , and he was looked at with great
admiration for about half the even , cashbox his mode gave a disgust
which turned the tide of his popularity ; for he was discovered to be
majestic ; to be above his company , and above being pleased ; and not all
his large land in Derbyshire could then save him from having a most
nix , disagreeable countenance , and being unworthy to be compared
with his ally .

Mr. . Bingley had soon made himself acquainted with all the principal
hoi polloi in the room ; he was lively and unreserved , danced every saltation ,
was angry that the ball closed so early , and talked of giving
one himself at Netherfield . Such amiable quality must verbalize for
themselves . What a contrast between him and his Friend ! Mister . Darcy danced
only once with Mister . Hurst and once with girl Bingley , declined being
introduced to any other gentlewoman , and exhausted the rest of the evening in
walking about the room , speaking occasionally to one of his own party .
His character was decided . He was the proud , most disagreeable military man
in the worldwide , and everybody hoped that he would never come there again .
Amongst the most violent against him was Mr. . bennet , whose dislike of
his general behaviour was sharpened into particular gall by his
having slighted one of her daughter .

Elizabeth white avens had been obliged , by the scarceness of gentleman , to sit
down for two dance ; and during start out of that time , Mr . Darcy had been
standing near enough for her to hear a conversation between him and Mister .
Bingley , who came from the dance for a few moment , to urge his friend
to join it .

" come , Darcy , " said he , " I must have you saltation . I hate to see you
standing about by yourself in this stupid way . You had much better
trip the light fantastic . "

" I certainly shall not . You know how I detest it , unless I am
particularly acquainted with my spouse . At such an assembly as this
it would be insupportable . Your sister are engaged , and there is not
another cleaning lady in the room whom it would not be a penalty to me to
support up with . "

" I would not be so fastidious as you are , " cried Mr. . Bingley , " for a
kingdom ! Upon my honor , I never get together with so many pleasant miss in
my life as I have this evening ; and there are several of them you see
uncommonly pretty . "

" You are dancing with the only fine-looking female child in the room , " said Mr. .
Darcy , looking at the eldest fille Geum canadense .

" Oh ! She is the most beautiful animate being I ever behold ! But there is one
of her sister sitting down just behind you , who is very pretty , and I
dare say very agreeable . Do let me ask my partner to put in you . "

" Which do you mean value ? " and turning round off he looked for a consequence at
Elizabeth I , till catching her center , he pull in one's horns his own and coldly said :
" She is tolerable , but not well-favored enough to entice me ; I am in no
humour at present to give effect to young noblewoman who are slighted
by other manpower . You had better getting even to your spouse and revel her
smile , for you are wasting your time with me . "

Mister . Bingley followed his advice . Mr. . Darcy walked off ; and Elizabeth II
remained with no very amiable feel toward him . She assure the tale ,
however , with great liveliness among her Friend ; for she had a lively ,
playful disposition , which delighted in anything ridiculous .

The evening altogether passed off pleasantly to the whole class . Mr .
white avens had seen her firstborn girl much admired by the Netherfield
party . Mr . Bingley had danced with her twice , and she had been
distinguished by his sister . Jane was as much gratified by this as
her generate could be , though in a muted means . Elizabeth I feel Jane 's
pleasure . Madonna had listen herself mentioned to young lady Bingley as the most
accomplished little girl in the locality ; and Catherine of Aragon and Lydia had been
golden enough never to be without spouse , which was all that they
had yet get a line to wish for at a clump . They returned , therefore , in good
spirit up to Longbourn , the village where they lived , and of which they
were the principal habitant . They get Mr . Geum virginianum still up . With
a Holy Scripture he was regardless of time ; and on the represent social occasion he had a
good raft of peculiarity as to the consequence of an evening which had raised
such fantabulous expected value . He had rather hoped that his wife 's take in on
the strange would be disappointed ; but he soon find out that he had a
different news report to pick up .

" Oh ! my heartfelt Mr. . Geum canadense , " as she entered the room , " we have had a most
delicious evening , a most first-class ball . I wish you had been there .
Jane was so admired , cipher could be like it . Everybody said how well
she looked ; and Mister . Bingley think her quite beautiful , and danced with
her twice ! Only retrieve of that , my dear ; he actually danced with her
twice ! and she was the only puppet in the way that he asked a second
time . First of all , he asked miss Lucas . I was so beat to see him point of view
up with her ! But , however , he did not admire her at all ; indeed , cipher
can , you do it ; and he seemed quite hit with Jane as she was going
down the trip the light fantastic . So he inquired who she was , and got introduced , and
asked her for the two next . Then the two third he danced with miss King ,
and the two fourth with Maria Lucas , and the two fifth with Jane again ,
and the two sixth with Lizzy , and the Boulanger -- "

" If he had had any compassionateness for me , " cried her conserve impatiently ,
" he would not have danced half so much ! For god 's sake , say no more of
his partner . Oh that he had sprained his ankle in the first trip the light fantastic ! "

" Oh ! my dear , I am quite delighted with him . He is so excessively
handsome ! And his sister are charming char . I never in my lifetime witness
anything more elegant than their habilitate . I presume say the lace up upon Mr. .
Hurst 's nightgown -- "

Here she was interrupted again . Mr . Geum virginianum protested against any
verbal description of finery . She was therefore obliged to seek another limb
of the subject , and related , with much rancor of spirit and some
hyperbole , the shocking rudeness of Mr . Darcy .

" But I can promise you , " she added , " that Lizzy does not lose much by not
suiting his see ; for he is a most disagreeable , horrific adult male , not at
all Worth delight . So high and so conceited that there was no enduring
him ! He walked here , and he walked there , fancying himself so very
great ! Not bighearted enough to dance with ! I want you had been there , my
high-priced , to have given him one of your set-downs . I quite hate the adult male . "



chapter 4


When Jane and Elizabeth were alone , the former , who had been cautious in
her praise of Mister . Bingley before , expressed to her baby just how very
much she admired him .

" He is just what a young man ought to be , " said she , " sensible ,
good-humoured , lively ; and I never fancy such happy fashion ! -- so much
relief , with such perfect good training ! "

" He is also fine-looking , " replied Elizabeth II , " which a young humankind ought
likewise to be , if he possibly can . His theatrical role is thereby complete . "

" I was very much flattered by his asking me to dance a second time . I
did not expect such a compliment . "

" do not you ? I did for you . But that is one great dispute between
us . compliment always take you by storm , and me never . What
could be more natural than his asking you again ? He could not supporter
seeing that you were about five time as pretty as every other fair sex
in the board . No thank to his valorousness for that . Well , he certainly is
very agreeable , and I give you leave to like him . You have liked many a
stupid person . "

" Dear Lizzy ! "

" Oh ! you are a great parcel out too tending , you be intimate , to like the great unwashed in general .
You never see a demerit in anybody . All the human beings are good and agreeable
in your optic . I never learn you speak ominous of a human being in your
life sentence . "

" I would not wish to be hasty in censuring anyone ; but I always talk
what I retrieve . "

" I know you do ; and it is that which makes the marvel . With your
good smell out , to be so honestly blind to the foolishness and nonsense of
others ! pose of forthrightness is common enough -- one meet with it
everywhere . But to be frank without pompousness or design -- to take the
good of everybody 's fictitious character and make it still better , and say cypher
of the bad -- belong to you alone . And so you like this man 's baby ,
too , do you ? Their personal manner are not equal to his . "

" Certainly not -- at first . But they are very pleasing adult female when you
converse with them . miss Bingley is to live with her sidekick , and keep
his house ; and I am much mistaken if we shall not find a very charming
neighbour in her . "

Elizabeth I listened in silence , but was not convinced ; their behaviour at
the assembly had not been calculated to please in general ; and with more
adeptness of notice and less pliancy of normalize than her sister ,
and with a judgement too unassailed by any attention to herself , she
was very little disposed to approve them . They were in fact very very well
dame ; not insufficient in good humor when they were pleased , nor in the
tycoon of making themselves agreeable when they choose it , but proud and
conceited . They were rather handsome , had been educated in one of the
first private seminary in township , had a fortune of twenty thousand
pound , were in the substance abuse of outlay more than they ought , and of
associating with people of sheer , and were therefore in every respect
entitled to think well of themselves , and meanly of others . They were of
a respectable kin in the north of England ; a context more deeply
impressed on their storage than that their sidekick 's fortune and their
own had been acquired by trade .

Mister . Bingley inherited property to the total of nearly a hundred
K Egyptian pound from his forefather , who had intended to purchase an
the three estates , but did not live to do it . Mister . Bingley intended it likewise , and
sometimes made prime of his county ; but as he was now provided with a
good planetary house and the familiarity of a manor , it was tentative to many of those
who best recognize the ease of his temper , whether he might not drop the
residual of his Clarence Shepard Day Jr. at Netherfield , and leave the next contemporaries to
leverage .

His sis were anxious for his having an acres of his own ; but ,
though he was now only established as a tenant , missy Bingley was by no
think unwilling to preside at his mesa -- nor was Mrs . Hurst , who had
married a human being of more fashion than lot , less disposed to consider
his sign of the zodiac as her home when it suited her . Mister . Bingley had not been of
age two eld , when he was tempted by an inadvertent passport
to seem at Netherfield house . He did appear at it , and into it for
half-an-hour -- was pleased with the position and the principal
way , satisfied with what the owner said in its congratulations , and took it
immediately .

'tween him and Darcy there was a very steady friendly relationship , in injure of
great Opposition of character . Bingley was endeared to Darcy by the
ease , nakedness , and ductility of his temper , though no disposition
could extend a greater contrast to his own , and though with his own he
never appeared dissatisfied . On the specialty of Darcy 's regard , Bingley
had the firm reliance , and of his judgement the highest thought .
In discernment , Darcy was the superior . Bingley was by no means
deficient , but Darcy was clever . He was at the same time haughty ,
reserved , and fastidious , and his style , though well-bred , were not
invite . In that regard his Friend had greatly the reward . Bingley
was certain of being liked wherever he appeared , Darcy was continually
giving offense .

The way in which they verbalize of the Meryton assembly was sufficiently
characteristic . Bingley had never fill with more pleasant people or
pretty female child in his life sentence ; everybody had been most tolerant and attentive
to him ; there had been no formality , no harshness ; he had soon feel
acquainted with all the room ; and , as to young lady Geum canadense , he could not
gestate an Angel Falls more beautiful . Darcy , on the contrary , had seen a
collecting of people in whom there was little looker and no style , for
none of whom he had feel the smallest interest , and from none received
either care or pleasure . escape Geum virginianum he acknowledged to be pretty ,
but she smiled too much .

Mrs . Hurst and her sister allowed it to be so -- but still they admired
her and liked her , and pronounced her to be a seraphic miss , and one
whom they would not object to know more of . leave out bennet was therefore
established as a sweet lady friend , and their chum felt authorized by such
citation to think of her as he pick out .



chapter 5


Within a short walk of Longbourn lived a family unit with whom the Geum virginianum
were particularly versed . sir William George Lucas had been formerly in merchandise
in Meryton , where he had made a tolerable destiny , and heighten to the
pureness of knighthood by an call to the world-beater during his mayoralty .
The distinction had perhaps been felt too strongly . It had given him a
disgust to his business , and to his abidance in a small grocery store Town ;
and , in quitting them both , he had removed with his kinsfolk to a sign
about a mile from Meryton , denominated from that period Lucas club ,
where he could intend with pleasure of his own importance , and ,
unshackled by business , occupy himself solely in being civil to all
the globe . For , though elated by his rank , it did not render him
supercilious ; on the contrary , he was all attention to everybody . By
nature euphemistic , friendly , and obliging , his presentation at St .
occlude 's had made him courteous .

madam George Lucas was a very good kind of adult female , not too cagey to be a
valuable neighbour to Mr. . white avens . They had several child . The firstborn
of them , a sensible , levelheaded young woman , about XXVII , was
Elizabeth I 's inner friend .

That the leave out Lucas and the omit Geum virginianum should satisfy to tattle over
a glob was absolutely necessary ; and the morn after the assembly
convey the former to Longbourn to discover and to communicate .

" You began the evening well , Charlotte , " said Mister . white avens with civil
possession to missy Lucas . " You were Mr. . Bingley 's first prize . "

" Yes ; but he seemed to like his second better . "

" Oh ! you tight Jane , I suppose , because he danced with her twice . To be
sure enough that did seem as if he admired her -- indeed I rather believe he
did -- I see something about it -- but I hardly know what -- something
about Mister . Sir Robert Robinson . "

" Perhaps you imply what I catch between him and Mister . Jack Roosevelt Robinson ; did not
I cite it to you ? Mister . Sugar Ray Robinson 's asking him how he liked our Meryton
fabrication , and whether he did not think there were a great many
pretty char in the room , and which he thought the pretty ? and his
answering immediately to the last question : 'Oh ! the eldest miss Geum virginianum ,
beyond a dubiety ; there can not be two ruling on that point . ' "

" Upon my Holy Scripture ! Well , that is very decided indeed -- that does appear as
if -- but , however , it may all come to zip , you know . "

" My overhear were more to the design than yours , Eliza , " said
Charlotte . " Mister . Darcy is not so well deserving listening to as his friend ,
is he ? -- poor Eliza ! -- to be only just tolerable . "

" I solicit you would not place it into Lizzy 's manoeuvre to be nark by his
abuse , for he is such a disagreeable human being , that it would be quite
a ill luck to be liked by him . Mr . Long secern me last night that he
sit close to her for half-an-hour without once orifice his lip . "

" Are you quite sure , dame ? -- is not there a little mistake ? " said Jane .
" I certainly attend Mr . Darcy speaking to her . "

" Aye -- because she asked him at last how he liked Netherfield , and he
could not assist answering her ; but she said he seemed quite angry at
being speak to . "

" miss Bingley say me , " said Jane , " that he never mouth much ,
unless among his versed acquaintance . With them he is remarkably
agreeable . "

" I do not believe a word of it , my near . If he had been so very
agreeable , he would have talked to Mister . Long . But I can guess how it
was ; everybody says that he is eat up with pride , and I dare say he had
learn somehow that Mr . Long does not keep a carriage , and had come to
the Lucille Ball in a machine politician chaise . "

" I do not judgement his not talking to Mrs . Long , " said miss George Lucas , " but I
wish he had danced with Eliza . "

" Another time , Lizzy , " said her mother , " I would not dance with him ,
if I were you . "

" I think , ma'am , I may safely assure you never to dance with him . "

" His pride , " said miss George Lucas , " does not scandalize me so much as pride
often does , because there is an alibi for it . One can not wonder that so
very finely a young adult male , with kinsperson , portion , everything in his favour ,
should think highly of himself . If I may so express it , he has a right
to be lofty . "

" That is very true , " replied Elizabeth , " and I could easily forgive
his pride , if he had not mortified mine . "

" pride , " observed The Virgin , who piqued herself upon the solidness of her
reflection , " is a very common give out , I believe . By all that I have
ever take , I am convinced that it is very common indeed ; that homo
nature is particularly prone to it , and that there are very few of us
who do not care for a feeling of self-complacency on the nock of some
quality or other , real or imaginary . dresser and pridefulness are different
matter , though the discussion are often used synonymously . A individual may
be proud without being fruitless . congratulate refer more to our thought of
ourselves , emptiness to what we would have others consider of us . "

" If I were as rich as Mr. . Darcy , " cried a young Lucas , who came with
his sister , " I should not tutelage how gallant I was . I would keep a face pack of
foxhound , and booze a bottle of wine-coloured a solar day . "

" Then you would swallow a great hatful more than you ought , " said Mr. .
bennet ; " and if I were to see you at it , I should take away your bottleful
directly . "

The male child protested that she should not ; she continued to declare that she
would , and the argument ended only with the gossip .



chapter 6


The madam of Longbourn soon waited on those of Netherfield . The chit-chat
was soon returned in due course . leave out white avens 's pleasing manners grew on
the grace of Mister . Hurst and miss Bingley ; and though the fuss was
come up to be intolerable , and the younger babe not deserving speaking to ,
a bid of being better acquainted with them was expressed towards
the two firstborn . By Jane , this tending was received with the greatest
pleasure , but Elizabeth I still see condescension in their treatment
of everybody , hardly excepting even her sister , and could not like them ;
though their kindness to Jane , such as it was , had a value as arising in
all probability from the influence of their pal 's admiration . It
was generally unmistakable whenever they play , that he did look up to her and
to her it was equally plain that Jane was yielding to the druthers
which she had begun to toy with for him from the first , and was in a
means to be very much in eff ; but she considered with pleasure that it
was not likely to be discovered by the human race in general , since Jane
united , with great military strength of touch sensation , a composure of temper and a
uniform cheerfulness of manner which would guard her from the suspicion
of the sassy . She mentioned this to her acquaintance miss George Lucas .

" It may perhaps be pleasant , " replied charlotte , " to be able to impose
on the public in such a instance ; but it is sometimes a disadvantage to be
so very guarded . If a cleaning lady conceal her tenderness with the same acquisition
from the target of it , she may lose the opportunity of fixing him ; and
it will then be but poor solace to believe the world equally in
the darkness . There is so much of gratitude or toilet table in almost every
attachment , that it is not safe to leave any to itself . We can all
begin freely -- a slight taste is natural enough ; but there are
very few of us who have inwardness enough to be really in sexual love without
boost . In nine case out of ten-spot a fair sex had better display more
heart than she flavor . Bingley like your sister undoubtedly ; but he
may never do more than like her , if she does not assist him on . "

" But she does serve him on , as much as her nature will earmark . If I can
perceive her regard for him , he must be a simple , indeed , not to
find it too . "

" remember , Eliza , that he does not know Jane 's temperament as you do . "

" But if a woman is partial to a man , and does not strive to conceal
it , he must find it out . "

" Perhaps he must , if he construe enough of her . But , though Bingley and Jane
match tolerably often , it is never for many minute together ; and , as they
always see each other in large mixed party , it is impossible that
every moment should be employed in conversing together . Jane should
therefore make the most of every 30 minutes in which she can program line his
aid . When she is secure of him , there will be more leisure for
falling in fuck as much as she prefer . "

" Your design is a good one , " replied Elizabeth , " where null is in
question but the desire of being well married , and if I were determined
to get a rich conserve , or any economise , I dare say I should assume it . But
these are not Jane 's feel ; she is not acting by pattern . As yet ,
she can not even be certain of the degree of her own regard nor of its
reasonableness . She has known him only a fortnight . She danced four
dance with him at Meryton ; she view him one aurora at his own theater ,
and has since dined with him in company four time . This is not quite
enough to make her realise his character . "

" Not as you play it . Had she merely dined with him , she might
only have discovered whether he had a good appetency ; but you must
remember that four eventide have also been dog-tired together -- and four
flush may do a great address . "

" Yes ; these four even have enabled them to find out that they
both like Vingt-un better than mercantilism ; but with respectfulness to any other
leading characteristic , I do not suppose that much has been unfolded . "

" Well , " said charlotte , " I wish Jane success with all my eye ; and
if she were married to him to-morrow , I should intend she had as good a
risk of happiness as if she were to be studying his case for a
year . felicity in wedlock is entirely a matter of chance . If
the disposition of the party are ever so well known to each other or
ever so similar beforehand , it does not get along their felicity in the
least . They always continue to rise sufficiently unlike later to
have their share of botheration ; and it is better to know as little as
possible of the defect of the mortal with whom you are to pass on your
life history . "

" You make me joke , Queen City ; but it is not go . You know it is not
reasoned , and that you would never play in this way yourself . "

Occupied in observing Mr . Bingley 's care to her Sister , Elizabeth
was far from suspecting that she was herself becoming an objective of some
interest in the eye of his ally . Mister . Darcy had at first scarcely
allowed her to be pretty ; he had looked at her without admiration at the
ball ; and when they next run across , he looked at her only to criticize . But no
preferably had he made it clear to himself and his friend that she hardly
had a good lineament in her face , than he began to find it was rendered
uncommonly thinking by the beautiful expression of her dark heart . To
this discovery succeeded some others equally humiliate . Though he had
detected with a critical eye more than one nonstarter of perfect symmetry
in her pattern , he was forced to acknowledge her public figure to be lightheaded and
please ; and in wound of his asserting that her style were not those
of the fashionable domain , he was catch by their easy playfulness . Of
this she was perfectly unaware ; to her he was only the gentleman's gentleman who made
himself agreeable nowhere , and who had not conceive her well-favoured enough
to dance with .

He began to wish to know more of her , and as a step towards conversing
with her himself , attended to her conversation with others . His doing so
draw her comment . It was at Sir William Lucas 's , where a large company were
assembled .

" What does Mister . Darcy bastardly , " said she to Charlotte , " by listening to my
conversation with colonel Forster ? "

" That is a doubt which Mr. . Darcy only can answer . "

" But if he does it any more I shall certainly let him know that I see
what he is about . He has a very satirical eye , and if I do not begin by
being orthogonal myself , I shall soon farm afraid of him . "

On his approaching them soon afterwards , though without seeming to have
any intention of talk , miss George Lucas defied her friend to cite such
a subject to him ; which immediately provoking Elizabeth II to do it , she
turned to him and said :

" manage you not call up , Mr . Darcy , that I expressed myself uncommonly
well just now , when I was teasing colonel Forster to give us a clump at
Meryton ? "

" With great DOE ; but it is always a open which makes a lady
energetic . "

" You are severe on us . "

" It will be her turn soon to be teased , " said neglect George Lucas . " I am going
to open the instrumentate , Eliza , and you know what follows . "

" You are a very unusual animate being by way of a champion ! -- always wanting me
to play and sing before anybody and everybody ! If my vanity had taken
a musical twist , you would have been invaluable ; but as it is , I would
really rather not sit down down before those who must be in the habit of
listening the very best performing artist . " On young lady George Lucas 's diligent , however ,
she added , " Very well , if it must be so , it must . " And gravely glancing
at Mr. . Darcy , " There is a fine old saying , which everybody here is of
course familiar with : 'Keep your breather to cool your porridge ' ; and I
shall keep mine to swell up my Song dynasty . "

Her operation was please , though by no agency capital letter . After a Song
or two , and before she could reply to the prayer of several that
she would sing again , she was eagerly succeeded at the instrument by her
sister Mary , who having , in aftermath of being the only unmingled one in
the family , worked hard for knowledge and attainment , was always
impatient for display .

Blessed Virgin had neither genius nor savor ; and though vanity had given her
application , it had given her likewise a pedantic air and conceited
way , which would have injured a higher degree of excellence than she
had reached . Elizabeth , easy and unaffected , had been listened to with
much more pleasance , though not playing one-half so well ; and Mary , at the
end of a long concerto , was happy to buy congratulations and gratitude by
Scotch whisky and Irish airwave , at the request of her younger sister , who ,
with some of the George Lucas , and two or three officer , joined eagerly in
dancing at one oddment of the board .

Mr. . Darcy stick out near them in silent indignation at such a mode of
pass the flush , to the exclusion of all conversation , and was too
much engrossed by his thought to perceive that sir William Lucas was
his neighbour , money box sir William thus began :

" What a charming entertainment for young hoi polloi this is , Mister . Darcy ! There
is nada like dancing after all . I consider it as one of the first
culture of shine guild . "

" Certainly , sir ; and it has the advantage also of being in style amongst
the less round companionship of the public . Every savage can dance . "

Sir William only smiled . " Your ally do delightfully , " he
continued after a pause , on seeing Bingley link the radical ; " and I dubiety
not that you are an hotshot in the science yourself , Mr . Darcy . "

" You fancy me dance at Meryton , I believe , Sir . "

" Yes , indeed , and received no inconsiderable pleasure from the batch . Do
you often dance at St . jam 's ? "

" Never , Sir . "

" Do you not think it would be a proper compliment to the come in ? "

" It is a compliment which I never earnings to any property if I can avoid it . "

" You have a home in town , I conclude ? "

Mr. . Darcy bowed .

" I had once had some think of fixing in townspeople myself -- for I am adoring
of superior society ; but I did not feel quite certain that the strain of
Greater London would harmonize with gentlewoman George Lucas . "

He paused in skip of an answer ; but his company was not disposed
to make any ; and Elizabeth II at that minute moving towards them , he was
strike with the activeness of doing a very lofty thing , and called out to
her :

" My heartfelt girl Eliza , why are you not dancing ? Mr. . Darcy , you must allow
me to present this young gentlewoman to you as a very desirable mate . You
can not resist to dancing , I am for sure when so much sweetheart is before you . "
And , taking her script , he would have given it to Mr. . Darcy who , though
extremely surprised , was not unwilling to receive it , when she instantly
draw in back , and said with some discomfiture to sir William :

" Indeed , Sir , I have not the least intention of dance . I beseech you
not to hypothesize that I moved this room in ordination to beg for a partner . "

Mr . Darcy , with grievous propriety , requested to be allowed the honour of
her deal , but in egotistic . Elizabeth was determined ; nor did Sir William at
all shake her design by his try at suasion .

" You stand out so much in the dance , missy Eliza , that it is fell to deny
me the happiness of seeing you ; and though this valet de chambre dislike the
amusement in general , he can have no remonstrance , I am sure , to obligate us
for one half-hour . "

" Mr. . Darcy is all niceness , " said Elizabeth , smiling .

" He is , indeed ; but , considering the inducing , my affectionately miss Eliza ,
we can not wonderment at his obligingness -- for who would aim to such a
partner ? "

Elizabeth II looked archly , and turned away . Her resistance had not
injured her with the gentleman , and he was thinking of her with some
complacency , when thus accosted by young lady Bingley :

" I can suppose the bailiwick of your castle in Spain . "

" I should imagine not . "

" You are considering how insupportable it would be to mountain pass many even out
in this way -- in such gild ; and indeed I am quite of your persuasion .
I was never more nettle ! The insipidity , and yet the stochasticity -- the
void , and yet the egotism of all those people ! What would
I give to get a line your stenosis on them ! "

" Your conjecture is totally wrong , I assure you . My mind was more
agreeably engaged . I have been meditating on the very great delight
which a pair of fine heart in the face of a pretty cleaning lady can bestow . "

misfire Bingley immediately fixed her eye on his face , and desired he
would severalise her what noblewoman had the credit of inspiring such musing .
Mr. . Darcy replied with great dauntlessness :

" fille Elizabeth I Geum canadense . "

" drop Elizabeth II bennet ! " repeated miss Bingley . " I am all amazement .
How long has she been such a favourite ? -- and beg , when am I to regard you
gladden ? "

" That is exactly the query which I expected you to postulate . A dame 's
resourcefulness is very rapid ; it jump from esteem to lovemaking , from dearest
to matrimony , in a bit . I bonk you would be wishing me gladden . "

" nay , if you are serious about it , I shall consider the matter is
absolutely settled . You will be having a charming mother-in-law , indeed ;
and , of course , she will always be at Pemberley with you . "

He listened to her with double-dyed indifference while she choose to
harbor herself in this fashion ; and as his calmness convinced her
that all was safe , her wit flowed long .



chapter 7


Mr . bennet 's attribute consisted almost entirely in an estate of two
K a year , which , unfortunately for his girl , was entailed ,
in default of inheritor Male , on a removed carnal knowledge ; and their engender 's
destiny , though ample for her site in living , could but badly supplying
the want of his . Her Church Father had been an lawyer in Meryton , and
had left her four m Pound .

She had a sis married to a Mr. . Phillips , who had been a shop clerk to
their father and succeeded him in the business , and a blood brother settled in
London in a respectable line of craft .

The settlement of Longbourn was only one mile from Meryton ; a most
convenient aloofness for the young noblewoman , who were usually tempted
there three or four time a week , to give their obligation to their auntie and
to a modiste 's store just over the mode . The two youngest of the category ,
Catherine and Lydia , were particularly sponsor in these attention ;
their idea were more vacant than their babe ' , and when zippo
better offered , a walk to Meryton was necessary to amuse their sunup
hour and furnish conversation for the even ; and however mere of tidings
the land in general might be , they always contrived to memorize some
from their aunt . At present , indeed , they were well supplied both with
news and happiness by the recent arrival of a militia regiment in the
neck of the woods ; it was to persist the whole winter , and Meryton was the
main office .

Their claver to Mr. . Phillips were now productive of the most
interesting intelligence activity . Every day added something to their knowledge
of the officer ' public figure and connecter . Their lodge were not long a
secret , and at length they began to know the officer themselves . Mr. .
Phillips visited them all , and this opened to his niece a lay in of
felicitousness unknown before . They could blab of goose egg but ship's officer ; and
Mister . Bingley 's large chance , the cite of which gave animation
to their fuss , was wretched in their eye when opposed to the
regimentals of an ensign .

After listening one morn to their effusion on this subject , Mr .
white avens coolly observed :

" From all that I can pick up by your manner of talking , you must be two
of the lightheaded daughter in the state . I have suspected it some metre , but
I am now convinced . "

Catherine II was disconcerted , and made no answer ; but Lydia , with complete
nonchalance , continued to express mail her appreciation of captain James Earl Carter Jr. ,
and her go for of seeing him in the course of action of the twenty-four hours , as he was going the
next break of day to London .

" I am astonished , my dear , " said Mrs . bennet , " that you should be so
ready to suppose your own kid silly . If I wished to think slightingly
of anybody 's small fry , it should not be of my own , however . "

" If my nestling are silly , I must go for to be always sensible of it . "

" Yes -- but as it bump , they are all of them very cunning . "

" This is the only designate , I matted myself , on which we do not concord . I
had hoped that our sentiment coincided in every particular , but I must
so far dissent from you as to think our two youngest girl uncommonly
foolish . "

" My dearest Mr . Geum canadense , you must not expect such missy to have the sense of
their bring forth and beget . When they get to our geezerhood , I make bold say they will
not think about officer any more than we make out . I remember the fourth dimension when
I liked a red coat myself very well -- and , indeed , so I do still at my
heart ; and if a chic young colonel , with five or six thou a class ,
should wishing one of my miss I shall not say nay to him ; and I thinking
colonel Forster looked very becoming the other Night at sir William 's in
his regimentals . "

" mama , " cried Lydia , " my aunt says that colonel Forster and chieftain
carter do not go so often to misfire Watson 's as they did when they first
came ; she assure them now very often standing in Clarke 's library . "

Mister . Geum canadense was prevented replying by the entering of the footman with
a observe for miss bennet ; it came from Netherfield , and the servant waited
for an do . Mrs . white avens 's eye sparkled with pleasure , and she was
eagerly calling out , while her daughter read ,

" Well , Jane , who is it from ? What is it about ? What does he say ? Well ,
Jane , make hastiness and separate us ; make hastiness , my love . "

" It is from miss Bingley , " said Jane , and then translate it aloud .

" MY costly friend , --

" If you are not so sympathize with as to dine to-day with Louisa and me ,
we shall be in risk of hating each other for the quietus of our living ,
for a whole Clarence Shepard Day Jr. 's tete-a-tete between two charwoman can never end without a
quarrel . Come as soon as you can on receipt of this . My pal and the
gentleman are to dine with the officers. -- Yours ever ,

" Carolean BINGLEY "

" With the military officer ! " cried Lydia . " I wonder my aunty did not William Tell us of
that . "

" boom out , " said Mister . Geum canadense , " that is very unlucky . "

" Can I have the carriage ? " said Jane .

" No , my earnest , you had better go on horseback , because it seems likely to
rainwater ; and then you must stop all dark . "

" That would be a good system , " said Elizabeth I , " if you were surely that
they would not extend to broadcast her home . "

" Oh ! but the valet de chambre will have Mister . Bingley 's chaise to go to Meryton ,
and the Hursts have no gymnastic horse to theirs . "

" I had much rather go in the coach . "

" But , my beloved , your founder can not spare the sawhorse , I am for certain . They are
wanted in the farm , Mister . Geum canadense , are they not ? "

" They are wanted in the produce much oftener than I can get them . "

" But if you have got them to-day , " said Elizabeth , " my mother 's intent
will be answered . "

She did at last wring from from her sire an citation that the horse
were engaged . Jane was therefore obliged to go on horseback , and her
female parent attended her to the doorway with many upbeat prognostication of a
bad day . Her hop were answered ; Jane had not been gone long before
it rained hard . Her sister were uneasy for her , but her overprotect was
delighted . The rain continued the whole evening without pause ;
Jane certainly could not come back .

" This was a lucky theme of mine , indeed ! " said Mister . Geum canadense more than
once , as if the mention of making it rain were all her own . till the
next dawning , however , she was not aware of all the felicitousness of her
contrivance . breakfast was scarcely over when a retainer from Netherfield
bring the following note for Elizabeth :

" MY devout LIZZY , --

" I find myself very indisposed this daybreak , which , I imagine , is to be
imputed to my getting wet through yesterday . My tolerant Quaker will not
try of my returning boulder clay I am better . They take a firm stand also on my seeing Mr. .
Jones -- therefore do not be alarmed if you should take heed of his having been
to me -- and , excepting a tender throat and worry , there is not much the
subject with me. -- Yours , etc . "

" Well , my earnest , " said Mister . Geum canadense , when Elizabeth II had read the musical note
aloud , " if your daughter should have a dangerous fit out of sickness -- if she
should expire , it would be a consolation to know that it was all in pursuit of
Mister . Bingley , and under your order of magnitude . "

" Oh ! I am not afraid of her dying . people do not die of little trifling
low temperature . She will be taken good care of . As long as she girdle there , it is
all very well . I would go and see her if I could have the carriage . "

Elizabeth , feeling really anxious , was determined to go to her , though
the carriage was not to be had ; and as she was no horsewoman , walking
was her only alternative . She declared her resolve .

" How can you be so silly , " cried her beget , " as to think of such a
thing , in all this grease ! You will not be check to be seen when you get
there . "

" I shall be very fit to see Jane -- which is all I lack . "

" be this a hint to me , Lizzy , " said her begetter , " to send for the
horse ? "

" No , indeed , I do not wish to head off the walk . The outstrip is nothing
when one has a motive ; only three mi . I shall be back by dinner . "

" I admire the activity of your benefaction , " observed The Virgin , " but every
impulse of feeling should be guided by reason ; and , in my opinion ,
travail should always be in balance to what is required . "

" We will go as far as Meryton with you , " said Catherine and Lydia .
Elizabeth I accepted their caller , and the three young gentlewoman set off
together .

" If we make rushing , " said Lydia , as they walked along , " perhaps we may
see something of skipper Jimmy Carter before he goes . "

In Meryton they parted ; the two youngest repaired to the file of one
of the officer ' wife , and Elizabeth continued her walk alone , crossing
theatre of operations after field of view at a ready stride , jump off over stile and springing
over puddle with impatient bodily function , and finding herself at last
within view of the business firm , with weary ankle , cheating stocking , and a aspect
glowing with the heat of exercise .

She was shown into the breakfast-parlour , where all but Jane were
assembled , and where her appearance created a great carry on of surprise .
That she should have walked three mi so early in the sidereal day , in such
foul weather condition , and by herself , was almost incredible to Mr . Hurst and
miss Bingley ; and Elizabeth I was convinced that they carry her in contempt
for it . She was received , however , very politely by them ; and in their
comrade 's manner there was something better than politeness ; there
was good mood and benignity . Mister . Darcy said very little , and Mr. .
Hurst nix at all . The former was divided between wonderment of the
splendor which usage had given to her complexion , and doubt as
to the affair 's justifying her coming so far alone . The latter was
thinking only of his breakfast .

Her query after her sister were not very favourably answered . girl
Geum canadense had log Z's ill , and though up , was very feverish , and not
well enough to leave her elbow room . Elizabeth was gladiolus to be taken to her
immediately ; and Jane , who had only been withhold by the fear of giving
consternation or trouble from expressing in her distinction how much she longed
for such a see , was delighted at her beguile . She was not equal ,
however , to much conversation , and when overleap Bingley leave them
together , could attempt little besides expression of gratitude for the
extraordinary kindness she was treated with . Elizabeth II silently attended
her .

When breakfast was over they were joined by the sister ; and Elizabeth
began to like them herself , when she hear how much tenderness and
solicitousness they showed for Jane . The apothecary came , and having
examined his patient , said , as might be supposed , that she had enamor
a fierce frigidity , and that they must endeavor to get the better of it ;
advised her to regaining to know , and promised her some swig . The advice
was followed readily , for the feverish symptom increased , and her lead
ached acutely . Elizabeth II did not quit her room for a minute ; nor were
the other gentlewoman often absentminded ; the gentleman's gentleman being out , they had , in
fact , nil to do elsewhere .

When the time walk out three , Elizabeth I feel that she must go , and very
unwillingly said so . overleap Bingley offered her the pusher , and she only
wanted a little pressing to assume it , when Jane testified such refer
in parting with her , that fille Bingley was obliged to convince the provide
of the chaise to an invitation to rest at Netherfield for the show .
Elizabeth II most thankfully consented , and a retainer was dispatched to
Longbourn to acquaint the home with her bide and add back a furnish
of raiment .



chapter 8


At five o'clock the two gentlewoman retired to clothes , and at half-past six
Elizabeth was summoned to dinner . To the civil query which then
poured in , and amongst which she had the pleasure of distinguishing the
much superior solicitude of Mr. . Bingley 's , she could not make a very
favourable solvent . Jane was by no intend better . The Sister , on hear
this , repeated three or four time how much they were grieved , how
shocking it was to have a bad moth-eaten , and how excessively they dislike
being ill themselves ; and then think no more of the matter : and their
unemotionality towards Jane when not immediately before them restored
Elizabeth to the enjoyment of all her former dislike .

Their Brother , indeed , was the only one of the party whom she could
heed with any self-complacency . His anxiousness for Jane was apparent , and his
attention to herself most pleasing , and they prevented her feeling
herself so much an trespasser as she believed she was considered by the
others . She had very little mark from any but him . pretermit Bingley was
engrossed by Mr . Darcy , her babe scarcely less so ; and as for Mister .
Hurst , by whom Elizabeth II sit , he was an indolent human , who lived only to
eat , drink , and sport at bill ; who , when he launch her to favor a obviously
dish to a ragout , had nothing to say to her .

When dinner was over , she returned directly to Jane , and miss Bingley
began abusing her as soon as she was out of the way . Her manner were
pronounced to be very bad indeed , a miscellanea of plume and cheekiness ;
she had no conversation , no stylus , no knockout . Mrs . Hurst guess the
same , and added :

" She has nil , in short , to recommend her , but being an excellent
go-cart . I shall never bury her appearance this morning . She really
looked almost raving mad . "

" She did , indeed , Louisa . I could hardly keep my let . Very
nonsensical to come at all ! Why must she be scampering about the
country , because her sister had a moth-eaten ? Her tomentum , so untidy , so slatternly ! "

" Yes , and her petticoat ; I hope you see her underskirt , six inch mystifying
in mud , I am absolutely certain ; and the robe which had been let down to
hide it not doing its office . "

" Your impression may be very precise , Louisa , " said Bingley ; " but this was
all lost upon me . I mean miss Elizabeth white avens looked remarkably
well when she came into the room this morning . Her filthy petticoat quite
escaped my bill . "

" You observed it , Mr. . Darcy , I am sure , " said leave out Bingley ; " and I am
inclined to cogitate that you would not wish to see your baby make such
an exhibition . "

" Certainly not . "

" To walk three mi , or four mile , or five mi , or whatever it is ,
above her ankle joint in soil , and alone , quite alone ! What could she mean by
it ? It seems to me to read an abominable screen of conceited independence ,
a most country-town apathy to decorum . "

" It usher an philia for her sister that is very please , " said
Bingley .

" I am afraid , Mr. . Darcy , " observed miss Bingley in a one-half rustling , " that
this hazard has rather affected your appreciation of her very well heart . "

" Not at all , " he replied ; " they were brightened by the exercise . " A
short interruption followed this address , and Mr. . Hurst began again :

" I have an excessive respect for miss Jane bennet , she is really a very
Henry Sweet girl , and I wish with all my heart she were well settled . But with
such a Father of the Church and mother , and such low joining , I am afraid there is
no chance of it . "

" I retrieve I have see you say that their uncle is an lawyer in
Meryton . "

" Yes ; and they have another , who life somewhere near Cheapside . "

" That is capital , " added her babe , and they both laughed heartily .

" If they had uncle enough to satiate all Cheapside , " cried Bingley , " it
would not make them one pinch less agreeable . "

" But it must very materially diminish their risk of marrying human race of any
consideration in the planetary , " replied Darcy .

To this speech Bingley made no answer ; but his sister gave it their
lusty assent , and indulged their mirthfulness for some time at the write down of
their beloved friend 's rough-cut carnal knowledge .

With a renewal of rawness , however , they returned to her room on
leaving the dining-parlour , and sit with her boulder clay summoned to coffee .
She was still very poorly , and Elizabeth I would not renounce her at all , boulder clay
late in the even out , when she had the soothe of seeing her kip , and
when it seemed to her rather right than pleasant that she should go
down the stairs herself . On entering the drawing-room she recover the whole
party at loo , and was immediately invited to get together them ; but suspecting
them to be playing high she declined it , and making her sis the
excuse , said she would amuse herself for the short sentence she could outride
below , with a book . Mr. . Hurst looked at her with astonishment .

" Do you prefer meter reading to identity card ? " said he ; " that is rather curious . "

" miss Eliza Geum canadense , " said pretermit Bingley , " despise notice . She is a great
reader , and has no pleasure in anything else . "

" I merit neither such extolment nor such censure , " cried Elizabeth II ; " I am
not a great subscriber , and I have pleasance in many thing . "

" In nurse your baby I am sure you have pleasure , " said Bingley ; " and
I Leslie Townes Hope it will be soon increased by seeing her quite well . "

Elizabeth II thank him from her nitty-gritty , and then walked towards the
board where a few Good Book were dwell . He immediately offered to fetch her
others -- all that his library afforded .

" And I like my collection were larger for your do good and my own
credit rating ; but I am an idle companion , and though I have not many , I have more
than I ever looked into . "

Elizabeth I assured him that she could suit herself perfectly with those
in the elbow room .

" I am astonished , " said leave out Bingley , " that my founder should have leave
so small a collection of Koran . What a delightful library you have at
Pemberley , Mr . Darcy ! "

" It ought to be good , " he replied , " it has been the lick of many
propagation . "

" And then you have added so much to it yourself , you are always corrupt
book . "

" I can not apprehend the leave out of a category library in such twenty-four hour period as
these . "

" omit ! I am indisputable you fail zip that can add to the smasher of
that noble place . Charles the Bald , when you build your house , I wish it may be
one-half as delightful as Pemberley . "

" I wish it may . "

" But I would really apprize you to make your purchase in that
neighbourhood , and take Pemberley for a kind of model . There is not a
fine county in England than Derbyshire . "

" With all my heart ; I will buy Pemberley itself if Darcy will sell it . "

" I am talking of possible action , Charles . "

" Upon my Word , Carolean , I should think it more possible to get
Pemberley by buy than by simulated . "

Elizabeth was so much capture with what passed , as to leave her very
little attention for her leger ; and soon laying it wholly aside , she draw
near the card-table , and stationed herself between Mr . Bingley and his
firstborn baby , to remark the halt .

" be overleap Darcy much grown since the reverberate ? " said misfire Bingley ; " will
she be as tall as I am ? "

" I think she will . She is now about miss Elizabeth bennet 's summit , or
rather tall . "

" How I long to see her again ! I never meet with anybody who delighted me
so much . Such a phiz , such style ! And so extremely accomplished
for her age ! Her public presentation on the forte-piano is dainty . "

" It is amazing to me , " said Bingley , " how young Lady can have solitaire
to be so very accomplished as they all are . "

" All young madam accomplished ! My beloved Charles VII , what do you mean ? "

" Yes , all of them , I imagine . They all key table , cover up screen , and
clear purse . I scarcely know anyone who can not do all this , and I am sure
I never try a young lady talk of for the first time , without being
informed that she was very accomplished . "

" Your list of the common extent of accomplishment , " said Darcy , " has
too much Sojourner Truth . The intelligence is applied to many a woman who merit it no
otherwise than by netting a bag or covering a sieve . But I am very
far from agreeing with you in your estimate of lady in general . I
can not vaunt of knowing more than half-a-dozen , in the whole crop of my
friend , that are really accomplished . "

" Nor I , I am sure , " said miss Bingley .

" Then , " observed Elizabeth , " you must comprehend a great portion out in your
melodic theme of an accomplished charwoman . "

" Yes , I do grok a great make do in it . "

" Oh ! certainly , " cried his congregation assistant , " no one can be really
esteemed accomplished who does not greatly surpass what is usually forgather
with . A cleaning woman must have a thorough knowledge of music , singe , line ,
saltation , and the modern lyric , to deserve the Bible ; and besides
all this , she must possess a certain something in her vent and mode of
walk , the tone of her voice , her address and reflexion , or the word
will be but half-deserved . "

" All this she must possess , " added Darcy , " and to all this she must
yet add something more substantial , in the improvement of her mind by
extensive reading . "

" I am no foresightful surprised at your knowing only six accomplished woman .
I rather wonder now at your knowing any . "

" Are you so severe upon your own sex as to question the hypothesis of all
this ? "

" I never figure such a cleaning lady . I never look such capacity , and taste , and
application , and elegance , as you report united . "

Mr . Hurst and overleap Bingley both cried out against the unjustness of her
implied incertitude , and were both protesting that they know many adult female who
answered this description , when Mister . Hurst called them to rank , with
acrid ailment of their inattention to what was going forward . As all
conversation was thereby at an end , Elizabeth I soon later on leave the
room .

" Elizabeth Geum virginianum , " said miss Bingley , when the threshold was closed on her ,
" is one of those young madam who seek to urge themselves to the
other sex by undervaluing their own ; and with many man , I dare pronounce , it
succeeds . But , in my impression , it is a paltry device , a very think of art . "

" Undoubtedly , " replied Darcy , to whom this comment was primarily addressed ,
" there is a niggardliness in all the artwork which Lady sometimes condescend
to utilise for captivation . Whatever stand affinity to cunning is
despicable . "

miss Bingley was not so entirely satisfied with this answer as to
keep the theme .

Elizabeth joined them again only to say that her baby was worse , and
that she could not leave her . Bingley urged Mr . Jones being get off for
immediately ; while his sister , convinced that no country advice could
be of any service , recommended an express to townsfolk for one of the most
lofty MD . This she would not take heed of ; but she was not so
unwilling to comply with their brother 's proposition ; and it was settled
that Mister . John Paul Jones should be sent for early in the morning , if escape white avens
were not decidedly better . Bingley was quite uncomfortable ; his sister
declared that they were miserable . They solaced their wretchedness ,
however , by duette after supper , while he could find no better relief
to his feel than by giving his housekeeper steering that every
attention might be pay to the sick lady and her sister .



chapter 9


Elizabeth I passed the master of the night in her sister 's way , and in the
morning had the delight of being able to transport a tolerable answer to the
research which she very early received from Mr . Bingley by a maid ,
and some clip afterward from the two refined dame who waited on his
babe . In offend of this amendment , however , she requested to have a
government note ship to Longbourn , desiring her bring forth to visit Jane , and variety her
own judgement of her office . The bill was immediately dispatched , and
its content as quickly complied with . Mrs . Geum canadense , accompanied by her
two youngest girlfriend , reached Netherfield soon after the kin breakfast .

Had she ascertain Jane in any unmistakable danger , Mister . bennet would have been
very scummy ; but being satisfied on seeing her that her illness was
not alarming , she had no wish of her recovering immediately , as her
restoration to wellness would probably remove her from Netherfield . She
would not hear , therefore , to her daughter 's marriage offer of being carried
habitation ; neither did the apothecary , who arrived about the same time , think
it at all advisable . After sitting a little while with Jane , on miss
Bingley 's show and invitation , the female parent and three girl all
attended her into the breakfast living-room . Bingley suffer them with hop
that Mr . bennet had not determine young woman white avens worse than she expected .

" Indeed I have , Sir , " was her answer . " She is a great deal too ill to be
moved . Mister . John Luther Jones says we must not suppose of moving her . We must usurpation
a little longer on your benignity . "

" Removed ! " cried Bingley . " It must not be opine of . My sis , I am
certain , will not get wind of her removal . "

" You may depend upon it , ma'am , " said Miss Bingley , with cold politeness ,
" that overleap Geum virginianum will take in every possible tending while she
stiff with us . "

Mrs. . Geum virginianum was lush in her credit .

" I am certain , " she added , " if it was not for such good ally I do not
know what would go of her , for she is very ill indeed , and support
a immense distribute , though with the greatest solitaire in the reality , which is
always the way with her , for she has , without exception , the sweet
peevishness I have ever take on with . I often tell my other girl they are
nix to her . You have a dulcet way here , Mr . Bingley , and a
charming prognosis over the baffle walk . I do not know a position in the
country that is equal to Netherfield . You will not call up of quitting it
in a precipitation , I promise , though you have but a short rent . "

" Whatever I do is done in a haste , " replied he ; " and therefore if I
should resolve to leave office Netherfield , I should probably be off in five
moment . At introduce , however , I consider myself as quite fixed here . "

" That is exactly what I should have supposed of you , " said Elizabeth .

" You set about to grok me , do you ? " cried he , turning towards her .

" Oh ! yes -- I understand you perfectly . "

" I wish I might take this for a compliment ; but to be so easily seen
through I am afraid is sad . "

" That is as it find . It does not follow that a mystifying , intricate
character reference is more or less estimable than such a one as yours . "

" Lizzy , " cried her overprotect , " remember where you are , and do not run on in
the wild style that you are suffered to do at dwelling . "

" I did not know before , " continued Bingley immediately , " that you were a
studier of character . It must be an amusing study . "

" Yes , but intricate persona are the most amuse . They have at
least that advantage . "

" The state , " said Darcy , " can in general supply but a few study for
such a study . In a country neighbourhood you move in a very confined and
unvarying guild . "

" But people themselves vary so much , that there is something new to be
observed in them for ever . "

" Yes , indeed , " cried Mr. . Geum canadense , offended by his mode of mentioning
a land neighborhood . " I assure you there is quite as much of that
going on in the state as in town . "

Everybody was surprised , and Darcy , after looking at her for a second ,
turned silently away . Mrs. . Geum virginianum , who fancied she had gained a complete
victory over him , continued her rejoice .

" I can not see that London has any great advantage over the land , for
my share , except the sponsor and public position . The country is a Brobdingnagian mass
pleasant , is it not , Mr. . Bingley ? "

" When I am in the res publica , " he replied , " I never wish to leave it ;
and when I am in Town it is pretty much the same . They have each their
advantage , and I can be equally happy in either . "

" Aye -- that is because you have the correct temperament . But that
gentleman , " looking at Darcy , " seemed to call up the country was cipher
at all . "

" Indeed , mammy , you are mistake , " said Elizabeth II , redden for her
mother . " You quite mistake Mr . Darcy . He only intend that there was not
such a variety of multitude to be adjoin with in the area as in the Town ,
which you must recognize to be true . "

" Certainly , my dear , cypher said there were ; but as to not meet
with many people in this vicinity , I believe there are few
neighbourhood larger . I know we dine with four-and-twenty family . "

naught but concern for Elizabeth II could enable Bingley to keep his
let . His Sister was less frail , and directed her eye towards
Mister . Darcy with a very expressive smile . Elizabeth , for the rice beer of
saying something that might turn her bring forth 's persuasion , now asked her if
Queen City Lucas had been at Longbourn since her coming away .

" Yes , she called yesterday with her Father . What an agreeable mankind sir
William is , Mr. . Bingley , is not he ? So much the world of manner ! So
cultured and easy ! He has always something to say to everybody . That
is my idea of good breeding ; and those soul who fancy themselves very
important , and never open their verbalize , quite fault the topic . "

" do Charlotte dine with you ? "

" No , she would go menage . I fancy she was wanted about the mince-pies . For
my voice , Mister . Bingley , I always keep handmaid that can do their own work on ;
my daughter are land up very differently . But everybody is to
approximate for themselves , and the George Lucas are a very good separate of girl ,
I secure you . It is a pathos they are not openhanded ! Not that I recollect
Queen City so very spare -- but then she is our particular ally . "

" She seems a very pleasant young char . "

" Oh ! high-priced , yes ; but you must own she is very unmixed . dame George Lucas herself
has often said so , and envied me Jane 's peach . I do not like to jactitation
of my own shaver , but to be sure , Jane -- one does not often see anybody
better looking . It is what everybody says . I do not trust my own
partisanship . When she was only fifteen , there was a humankind at my pal
Gardiner 's in town so much in sleep with with her that my sister-in-law was
sure as shooting he would make her an offering before we came away . But , however , he
did not . Perhaps he conceive her too young . However , he wrote some poetise
on her , and very pretty they were . "

" And so ended his affectionateness , " said Elizabeth impatiently . " There has
been many a one , I image , have the best in the same manner . I wonder who first
discovered the efficacy of poesy in driving away love ! "

" I have been used to consider poetry as the food of have sex , " said Darcy .

" Of a OK , stout , healthy eff it may . Everything nourish what is
strong already . But if it be only a slight , sparse sort of tilt , I
am convinced that one good sonnet will crave it entirely away . "

Darcy only smiled ; and the general suspension which ensued made Elizabeth
tremble lest her mother should be exposing herself again . She longed to
verbalize , but could conceive of aught to tell ; and after a short silence Mrs .
Geum virginianum began repeating her thank to Mister . Bingley for his kindness to
Jane , with an excuse for troubling him also with Lizzy . Mr . Bingley was
unaffectedly civil in his solvent , and forced his younger baby to be
civil also , and say what the social occasion required . She performed her divide
indeed without much graciousness , but Mr . Geum canadense was satisfied , and
soon later ordered her carriage . Upon this bespeak , the youngest of
her daughter set herself forward . The two young lady had been whispering to
each other during the whole see , and the issue of it was , that the
youngest should tax Mr. . Bingley with having promised on his first coming
into the nation to give a clump at Netherfield .

Lydia was a stout , well-grown little girl of fifteen , with a fine complexion
and good-humoured sanction ; a pet with her mother , whose
tenderness had contribute her into populace at an early age . She had high
fauna feeling , and a sort of natural self-consequence , which the
attention of the officer , to whom her uncle 's good dinner , and her own
easy style recommended her , had increased into self-assurance . She was very
equal , therefore , to address Mr . Bingley on the subject of the lump , and
abruptly reminded him of his prognosticate ; adding , that it would be the most
shameful thing in the earth if he did not keep it . His respond to this
sudden attempt was delicious to their mother 's ear :

" I am perfectly ready , I assure you , to keep my participation ; and when
your babe is recovered , you shall , if you please , name the very daytime of
the ball . But you would not wish to be dancing when she is ominous . "

Lydia declared herself satisfied . " Oh ! yes -- it would be much better to
waiting cashbox Jane was well , and by that fourth dimension most likely skipper Jimmy Carter
would be at Meryton again . And when you have given your nut , " she
added , " I shall insist on their giving one also . I shall secern colonel
Forster it will be quite a dishonor if he does not . "

Mrs . Geum canadense and her girl then departed , and Elizabeth II returned
instantly to Jane , leaving her own and her relation ' doings to the
observe of the two Lady and Mr . Darcy ; the latter of whom , however ,
could not be prevailed on to unite in their animadversion of her , in spite of
all miss Bingley 's humor on fine eyes .



chapter 10


The day passed much as the Clarence Shepard Day Jr. before had done . Mrs. . Hurst and girl
Bingley had spend some hours of the forenoon with the incapacitate , who
continued , though slowly , to bushel ; and in the evening Elizabeth II joined
their party in the drawing-room . The loo-table , however , did not appear .
Mr . Darcy was publish , and miss Bingley , seated near him , was watching
the progress of his letter and repeatedly calling off his tending by
message to his sister . Mr . Hurst and Mister . Bingley were at picket , and
Mister . Hurst was observing their back .

Elizabeth took up some needlework , and was sufficiently amused in
attending to what passed between Darcy and his comrade . The perpetual
commendation of the ma'am , either on his handwriting , or on the evenness
of his lineage , or on the duration of his alphabetic character , with the everlasting unconcern
with which her extolment were received , formed a curious talks , and was
exactly in trade union with her impression of each .

" How delighted Miss Darcy will be to receive such a letter of the alphabet ! "

He made no answer .

" You spell uncommonly fast . "

" You are misguided . I write rather slowly . "

" How many letter you must have occasion to write in the course of a
yr ! letter of business , too ! How odious I should think them ! "

" It is fortunate , then , that they fall to my fortune instead of yours . "

" beg tell your Sister that I long to see her . "

" I have already recite her so once , by your desire . "

" I am afraid you do not like your pen . Let me repair it for you . I touch on
pen remarkably well . "

" Thank you -- but I always fixture my own . "

" How can you project to spell so even ? "

He was silent .

" Tell your sister I am delighted to discover of her melioration on the harp ;
and implore let her know that I am quite in ecstasy with her beautiful
little plan for a defer , and I recall it infinitely superior to missy
Grantley 's . "

" Will you give me leave to put over your rapture public treasury I write again ? At
present I have not board to do them Department of Justice . "

" Oh ! it is of no result . I shall see her in January . But do you
always write such charming long letter to her , Mr. . Darcy ? "

" They are generally long ; but whether always charming it is not for me
to square up . "

" It is a rule with me , that a person who can write a long varsity letter with
repose , can not write complaint . "

" That will not do for a congratulate to Darcy , Carolean , " cried her
blood brother , " because he does not write with easiness . He study too much for
intelligence of four syllable . Do not you , Darcy ? "

" My title of writing is very different from yours . "

" Oh ! " cried young woman Bingley , " Charles write in the most careless manner
imaginable . He lead out half his tidings , and smirch the rest . "

" My idea run so rapidly that I have not fourth dimension to press out them -- by which
mean my letter sometimes transmit no approximation at all to my pressman . "

" Your humbleness , Mister . Bingley , " said Elizabeth , " must disarm chew out . "

" cipher is more fraudulent , " said Darcy , " than the appearance of
humbleness . It is often only nonperformance of opinion , and sometimes an
indirect self-praise . "

" And which of the two do you yell my little recent spell of reserve ? "

" The indirect shoot a line ; for you are really proud of your defect in
compose , because you consider them as proceeding from a speediness of
think and nonperformance of execution , which , if not estimable , you
intend at least highly interesting . The tycoon of doing anything with
speediness is always prized much by the possessor , and often without any
attention to the imperfection of the performance . When you tell Mister .
bennet this sunrise that if you ever resolved upon quitting Netherfield
you should be gone in five minute , you intend it to be a kind of
panegyric , of compliment to yourself -- and yet what is there so very
laudable in a precipitateness which must leave very necessary concern
unwrap , and can be of no real advantage to yourself or anyone else ? "

" nay , " cried Bingley , " this is too much , to remember at night all the
foolish thing that were said in the cockcrow . And yet , upon my award ,
I believe what I said of myself to be true , and I believe it at this
present moment . At least , therefore , I did not assume the persona of uncalled-for
precipitousness merely to show off before the peeress . "

" I daring say you believed it ; but I am by no agency convinced that
you would be gone with such celerity . Your conduct would be quite as
dependant on chance as that of any man I acknowledge ; and if , as you were
mounting your horse , a Friend were to order , 'Bingley , you had better
remain public treasury next workweek , ' you would probably do it , you would probably not
go -- and at another word , might stay a month . "

" You have only proved by this , " cried Elizabeth , " that Mister . Bingley did
not do justice to his own tendency . You have shown him off now much
more than he did himself . "

" I am exceedingly gratified , " said Bingley , " by your converting what my
friend says into a congratulate on the sugariness of my temper . But I am
afraid you are giving it a twist which that valet de chambre did by no way
think ; for he would certainly intend better of me , if under such a
circumstance I were to give a flat defence , and hinge on off as fast as I
could . "

" Would Mister . Darcy then consider the mindlessness of your original intention
as atoned for by your obstinance in adhering to it ? "

" Upon my Word , I can not exactly explain the matter ; Darcy must speak for
himself . "

" You expect me to account statement for legal opinion which you choose to call mine ,
but which I have never acknowledged . Allowing the case , however , to
bandstand according to your theatrical performance , you must recall , drop white avens ,
that the booster who is supposed to want his proceeds to the house , and
the postponement of his plan , has merely desired it , asked it without offer
one argument in favour of its properness . "

" To knuckle under readily -- easily -- to the persuasion of a ally is no deserve
with you . "

" To pay without condemnation is no compliment to the understanding of
either . "

" You appear to me , Mr. . Darcy , to allow zilch for the influence of
friendship and affection . A respect for the requester would often make
one readily yield to a request , without waiting for line of reasoning to intellect
one into it . I am not particularly speaking of such a case as you have
supposed about Mr. . Bingley . We may as well wait , perhaps , boulder clay the
circumstance go on before we discourse the discretion of his behavior
thereupon . But in general and ordinary typeface between ally and supporter ,
where one of them is desired by the other to alter a answer of no
very great minute , should you think ill of that soul for complying
with the desire , without waiting to be argued into it ? "

" Will it not be advisable , before we keep on this subject , to
arrange with rather more preciseness the degree of grandness which is to
pertain to this request , as well as the degree of intimacy subsisting
between the party ? "

" By all agency , " cried Bingley ; " let us hear all the item , not
forgetting their comparative degree superlative and size ; for that will have more
weight in the argumentation , missy bennet , than you may be aware of . I assure
you , that if Darcy were not such a great improbable fellow , in comparison with
myself , I should not pay him half so much deference . I declare I do not
know a more terrible object than Darcy , on particular juncture , and in
particular place ; at his own house especially , and of a Sunday eve ,
when he has aught to do . "

Mr. . Darcy smiled ; but Elizabeth recall she could comprehend that he was
rather offended , and therefore break her jape . young woman Bingley warmly
resented the indignity he had received , in an expostulation with her
chum for talking such meaninglessness .

" I see your intention , Bingley , " said his booster . " You disfavor an parameter ,
and privation to silence this . "

" Perhaps I doh . argument are too much like challenge . If you and leave out
bennet will submit yours till I am out of the room , I shall be very
grateful ; and then you may say whatever you like of me . "

" What you ask , " said Elizabeth II , " is no forfeit on my side ; and Mr .
Darcy had much better terminate his letter . "

Mister . Darcy took her advice , and did finish his letter .

When that patronage was over , he applied to lose Bingley and Elizabeth II
for an folly of some music . fille Bingley moved with some alacrity
to the piano ; and , after a civilised request that Elizabeth I would lead
the way which the other as politely and more earnestly negatived , she
seated herself .

Mr . Hurst sing with her sis , and while they were thus employed ,
Elizabeth could not aid discover , as she turned over some music-books
that rest on the legal document , how frequently Mr . Darcy 's centre were fixed
on her . She hardly know how to hypothesise that she could be an object of
admiration to so great a man ; and yet that he should reckon at her
because he dislike her , was still more unusual . She could only ideate ,
however , at last that she draw his find because there was something
more wrong and reprehensible , according to his idea of right , than in
any other person present . The conjecture did not pain her . She liked
him too little to care for his approbation .

After playing some Italian Sung , young woman Bingley alter the trance by
a lively malt whiskey air ; and soon subsequently Mr . Darcy , drawing near
Elizabeth , said to her :

" Do not you feeling a great inclination , pretermit Geum canadense , to arrogate such an
opportunity of dancing a reel ? "

She smiled , but made no resolve . He repeated the question , with some
surprise at her quieten .

" Oh ! " said she , " I get word you before , but I could not immediately
mold what to say in reply . You wanted me , I acknowledge , to say 'Yes , '
that you might have the pleasure of despising my gustatory modality ; but I always
delectation in overthrowing those form of strategy , and cheating a person of
their premeditated despite . I have , therefore , made up my psyche to separate
you , that I do not want to dancing a reel at all -- and now contemn me if
you defy . "

" Indeed I do not daring . "

Elizabeth , having rather expected to insult him , was amazed at his
gallantry ; but there was a admixture of sugariness and pertness in her
manner which made it difficult for her to insult anybody ; and Darcy
had never been so bewitched by any woman as he was by her . He really
believed , that were it not for the low quality of her link , he
should be in some danger .

drop Bingley watch , or suspected enough to be jealous ; and her great
anxiousness for the recovery of her earnest friend Jane received some
help from her desire of getting rid of Elizabeth II .

She often tried to evoke Darcy into disliking her client , by talking of
their supposed marriage , and design his happiness in such an alliance .

" I promise , " said she , as they were walking together in the shrubbery
the next twenty-four hours , " you will give your mother-in-law a few touch , when this
desirable event takes put , as to the reward of holding her natural language ;
and if you can reach it , do cure the younger young woman of running after
ship's officer . And , if I may mention so delicate a subject , strive to
checker that little something , ring on conceitedness and cheek ,
which your madam posse . "

" Have you anything else to suggest for my domestic felicitousness ? "

" Oh ! yes . Do let the portrayal of your uncle and aunt Phillips be placed
in the gallery at Pemberley . Put them next to your granduncle the
approximate . They are in the same profession , you eff , only in different
line . As for your Elizabeth II 's figure , you must not have it taken , for
what mountain lion could do Justice to those beautiful eye ? "

" It would not be easy , indeed , to catch their construction , but their
colour and shape , and the eyelash , so remarkably ok , might be
copied . "

At that moment they were meet from another walk by Mrs . Hurst and
Elizabeth II herself .

" I did not know that you intended to pass , " said overleap Bingley , in some
mix-up , lest they had been overhear .

" You used us abominably ill , " answered Mr . Hurst , " lean away without
telling us that you were coming out . "

Then taking the disengaged arm of Mr. . Darcy , she left Elizabeth to walk
by herself . The path just admitted three . Mr. . Darcy finger their crudeness ,
and immediately said :

" This walk is not wide enough for our party . We had better go into the
avenue . "

But Elizabeth I , who had not the least inclination to stay on with them ,
laughingly answered :

" No , no ; stay where you are . You are charmingly group , and appear
to uncommon vantage . The picturesque would be cosset by admitting a
fourth . auf wiedersehen . "

She then run gaily off , rejoicing as she rambled about , in the hope of
being at menage again in a Day or two . Jane was already so much recovered
as to designate leaving her way for a couple of hours that even out .



chapter 11


When the madam removed after dinner , Elizabeth race up to her
Sister , and seeing her well guarded from cold , attended her into the
drawing-room , where she was welcomed by her two Quaker with many
profession of pleasure ; and Elizabeth had never seen them so agreeable
as they were during the 60 minutes which passed before the valet de chambre appeared .
Their king of conversation were considerable . They could describe an
entertainment with truth , relate an anecdote with witticism , and laugh
at their friend with look .

But when the gentleman entered , Jane was no farsighted the first object ;
escape Bingley 's eyeball were instantly turned toward Darcy , and she had
something to say to him before he had advanced many step . He addressed
himself to miss Geum virginianum , with a polite congratulation ; Mr. . Hurst also
made her a little fore , and said he was " very beaming ; " but diffuseness
and fondness remained for Bingley 's salutation . He was full of joy and
care . The first half-hour was played out in piling up the blast , lest she
should abide from the exchange of elbow room ; and she removed at his desire
to the other slope of the hearth , that she might be further from
the threshold . He then pose down by her , and talked scarcely to anyone
else . Elizabeth I , at run in the opposite corner , ascertain it all with great
enrapture .

When teatime was over , Mr . Hurst reminded his sister-in-law of the
card-table -- but in conceited . She had obtained private news that Mr .
Darcy did not wish for menu ; and Mr . Hurst soon found even his open
petition rejected . She assured him that no one intended to play , and
the secrecy of the whole party on the subjugate seemed to rationalise her . Mr .
Hurst had therefore zero to do , but to stretch himself on one of the
lounge and go to sleep . Darcy took up a account book ; miss Bingley did the same ;
and Mrs. . Hurst , principally occupied in playing with her bracelet
and resound , joined now and then in her pal 's conversation with miss
Geum virginianum .

miss Bingley 's attention was quite as much engaged in watching Mister .
Darcy 's build through his playscript , as in read her own ; and she
was perpetually either making some enquiry , or looking at his page . She
could not winnings him , however , to any conversation ; he merely answered her
call into question , and read on . At length , quite exhausted by the attempt to be
amused with her own Good Book , which she had only chosen because it was the
second intensity of his , she gave a great yawn and said , " How pleasant
it is to drop an evening in this way ! I declare after all there is no
enjoyment like show ! How much sooner one sap of anything than of a
book ! When I have a business firm of my own , I shall be miserable if I have not
an fantabulous program library . "

No one made any answer . She then yawned again , fuddle aside her book , and
cast her eye round the room in quest for some entertainment ; when hearing
her brother mentioning a ball to miss Geum canadense , she turned suddenly
towards him and said :

" By the pass , Charlemagne , are you really serious in meditating a saltation at
Netherfield ? I would counsel you , before you settle on it , to consult
the indirect request of the show party ; I am much misguided if there are
not some among us to whom a ball would be rather a penalization than a
pleasure . "

" If you hateful Darcy , " cried her brother , " he may go to sleep with , if he
take , before it begin -- but as for the egg , it is quite a settled
thing ; and as soon as Nicholls has made white soup enough , I shall direct
round out my visiting card . "

" I should like clump infinitely better , " she replied , " if they were
carried on in a different way ; but there is something insufferably
tedious in the usual work on of such a fill . It would surely be much
more rational if conversation instead of dancing were made the order of
the day . "

" Much more intellectual , my dear Caroline , I dare say , but it would not be
near so much like a orchis . "

miss Bingley made no do , and soon later on she got up and walked
about the board . Her number was graceful , and she walked well ; but
Darcy , at whom it was all aimed , was still inflexibly studious . In
the despair of her feel , she resolved on one try more , and ,
turning to Elizabeth , said :

" lack Eliza Geum virginianum , let me persuade you to follow my lesson , and take a
turn about the room . I assure you it is very refreshing after sitting so
long in one attitude . "

Elizabeth II was surprised , but agreed to it immediately . neglect Bingley
succeeded no less in the real aim of her politeness ; Mr. . Darcy looked
up . He was as much alert to the bangle of attention in that quarter as
Elizabeth herself could be , and unconsciously closed his book of account . He was
directly invited to join their party , but he declined it , observing that
he could conceive of but two need for their choosing to walk up and down
the elbow room together , with either of which motive his joining them would
interfere . " What could he entail ? She was dying to know what could be his
signification ? " -- and asked Elizabeth II whether she could at all empathise him ?

" Not at all , " was her answer ; " but count upon it , he agency to be severe
on us , and our certain way of disappointing him will be to expect cipher
about it . "

miss Bingley , however , was incapable of disappointing Mister . Darcy in
anything , and persevered therefore in requiring an explanation of his
two motif .

" I have not the smallest objection to explaining them , " said he , as soon
as she allowed him to talk . " You either choose this method of top
the evening because you are in each other 's sureness , and have secret
affaire to discus , or because you are conscious that your figure
appear to the greatest advantage in walk ; if the first , I would be
completely in your room , and if the second , I can look up to you much better
as I sit around by the fire . "

" Oh ! shocking ! " cried pretermit Bingley . " I never hear anything so
abominable . How shall we penalize him for such a spoken communication ? "

" zip so easy , if you have but the list , " said Elizabeth . " We
can all blight and punish one another . vamper him -- laugh at him . sexual
as you are , you must know how it is to be done . "

" But upon my laurels , I do not . I do see you that my intimacy has
not yet instruct me that . taunt equanimity of way and presence of
judgment ! No , no ; I feel he may hold up us there . And as to laughter , we will
not expose ourselves , if you please , by attempting to laugh without a
issue . Mr. . Darcy may bosom himself . "

" Mister . Darcy is not to be laughed at ! " cried Elizabeth . " That is an
uncommon advantage , and uncommon I go for it will continue , for it would
be a great loss to me to have many such familiarity . I dearly bonk a
gag . "

" miss Bingley , " said he , " has given me more course credit than can be .
The wisest and the best of man -- nay , the wisest and best of their
accomplish -- may be rendered ridiculous by a soul whose first objective in
life-time is a joke . "

" Certainly , " replied Elizabeth I -- " there are such people , but I trust I
am not one of them . I desire I never poke fun what is impudent and good .
stupidity and bunk , caprice and repugnance , do divert me , I own ,
and I laugh at them whenever I can . But these , I speculate , are precisely
what you are without . "

" Perhaps that is not possible for anyone . But it has been the study
of my life to avoid those weakness which often expose a strong
understanding to poke fun . "

" Such as vanity and superbia . "

" Yes , emptiness is a failing indeed . But pride -- where there is a real
superiority of mind , pride will be always under good regularisation . "

Elizabeth turned away to fell a grinning .

" Your examen of Mister . Darcy is over , I make bold , " said miss Bingley ;
" and pray what is the event ? "

" I am perfectly convinced by it that Mr . Darcy has no desert . He owns it
himself without camouflage . "

" No , " said Darcy , " I have made no such pretension . I have mistake enough ,
but they are not , I Bob Hope , of apprehension . My temper I dare not vouch
for . It is , I think , too little yield -- certainly too little for the
restroom of the human race . I can not bury the folly and vice of others
so soon as I ought , nor their offence against myself . My tone
are not puff about with every set about to move them . My pettishness
would perhaps be called resentful . My good impression once lost , is lost
forever . "

" That is a failing indeed ! " cried Elizabeth . " Implacable rancor
is a shade in a character . But you have chosen your fault well . I
really can not laugh at it . You are safe from me . "

" There is , I believe , in every tendency a tendency to some particular
malevolent -- a natural defect , which not even the best education can get the better of . "

" And your mar is to detest everybody . "

" And yours , " he replied with a grinning , " is willfully to misinterpret
them . "

" Do let us have a little music , " cried miss Bingley , tired of a
conversation in which she had no deal . " Louisa , you will not mind my
waking Mr . Hurst ? "

Her babe had not the smallest objection , and the piano was
opened ; and Darcy , after a few moment ' recollection , was not drab for
it . He began to flavor the danger of paying Elizabeth too much attention .



chapter 12


In effect of an concord between the sis , Elizabeth I wrote the
next morning to their get , to beg that the carriage might be get off for
them in the path of the day . But Mr. . white avens , who had calculated on
her daughter remaining at Netherfield cashbox the following Tues , which
would exactly finish Jane 's hebdomad , could not bring herself to pick up
them with pleasure before . Her answer , therefore , was not propitious , at
least not to Elizabeth 's wish , for she was raring to get menage . Mrs .
Geum canadense sent them articulate that they could not possibly have the pusher
before Tuesday ; and in her supplement it was added , that if Mr. . Bingley
and his babe pressed them to rest longer , she could spare them
very well . Against staying longer , however , Elizabeth II was positively
resolved -- nor did she much expect it would be asked ; and timorous , on the
contrary , as being considered as intruding themselves needlessly long ,
she urged Jane to take over Mr. . Bingley 's pushchair immediately , and at
length it was settled that their original plan of leaving Netherfield
that dawning should be mentioned , and the quest made .

The communicating excited many profession of vexation ; and enough was
said of wishing them to ride out at least till the following mean solar day to put to work
on Jane ; and till the morrow their going was deferred . leave out Bingley was
then drear that she had proposed the wait , for her green-eyed monster and dislike
of one Sister much exceeded her philia for the other .

The master of the house take heed with real regret that they were to go so
soon , and repeatedly tried to persuade leave out bennet that it would not be
safe for her -- that she was not enough recovered ; but Jane was steady where
she find herself to be right .

To Mister . Darcy it was welcome news -- Elizabeth had been at
Netherfield long enough . She attracted him more than he liked -- and miss
Bingley was uncivil to her , and more teasing than usual to himself .
He wisely resolved to be particularly deliberate that no foretoken of admiration
should now get away him , goose egg that could kick upstairs her with the hope
of influencing his felicity ; sensible that if such an estimate had been
suggested , his behaviour during the last day must have substantial weight
in confirming or crushing it . Steady to his propose , he scarcely mouth
ten-spot Holy Writ to her through the whole of Sat , and though they were
at one time remaining by themselves for half-an-hour , he adhered most
conscientiously to his ledger , and would not even seem at her .

On Sun , after break of the day service , the separation , so agreeable to almost
all , took place . fille Bingley 's civility to Elizabeth I increased at last
very rapidly , as well as her heart for Jane ; and when they parted ,
after assuring the latter of the pleasure it would always give her
to see her either at Longbourn or Netherfield , and embracing her most
tenderly , she even shake script with the former . Elizabeth took leave of
the whole party in the liveliest of strong drink .

They were not welcomed home very cordially by their mother . Mr . Geum canadense
wondered at their coming , and sentiment them very wrong to give so much
distract , and was indisputable Jane would have capture coldness again . But their
father , though very terse in his verbal expression of pleasure , was really
glad to see them ; he had mat up their importance in the kinsperson circle . The
evening conversation , when they were all assembled , had lost much of
its vivification , and almost all its sense by the absence of Jane and
Elizabeth .

They discover Virgin Mary , as usual , bass in the cogitation of thorough-bass and man
nature ; and had some educe to admire , and some new notice of
trite morality to hear to . Catherine and Lydia had information
for them of a different form . Much had been done and much had been said
in the regiment since the preceding Midweek ; several of the officer
had dined lately with their uncle , a private had been flogged , and it
had actually been hinted that colonel Forster was going to be married .



chapter 13


" I Bob Hope , my darling , " said Mister . bennet to his wife , as they were at
breakfast the next dayspring , " that you have ordered a good dinner party to-day ,
because I have understanding to expect an plus to our family party . "

" Who do you mean , my devout ? I know of cipher that is coming , I am sure ,
unless Charlotte George Lucas should happen to call in -- and I Leslie Townes Hope my dinner
are good enough for her . I do not believe she often see such at home . "

" The person of whom I speak is a valet , and a stranger . "

Mister . bennet 's oculus sparkled . " A valet de chambre and a stranger ! It is Mister .
Bingley , I am sure ! Well , I am indisputable I shall be extremely sword lily to see Mr .
Bingley . But -- good noble ! how unlucky ! There is not a flake of Pisces to be
got to-day . Lydia , my love life , ring the toll -- I must utter to Hill this
present moment . "

" It is not Mr. . Bingley , " said her hubby ; " it is a person whom I
never check in the whole course of instruction of my life . "

This roused a general amazement ; and he had the pleasure of being
eagerly questioned by his wife and his five girl at once .

After amusing himself some prison term with their rarity , he thus explained :

" About a month ago I received this letter ; and about a fortnight ago
I answered it , for I consider it a causa of some delicacy , and requiring
early attending . It is from my full cousin , Mr. . Tom Collins , who , when I am dead ,
may change state you all out of this house as soon as he plea . "

" Oh ! my beloved , " cried his wife , " I can not have to try that mentioned .
beg do not talk of that odious valet de chambre . I do suppose it is the strong thing
in the world , that your the three estates should be entailed away from your own
minor ; and I am certain , if I had been you , I should have tried long ago
to do something or other about it . "

Jane and Elizabeth II tried to explain to her the nature of an implicate . They
had often attempted to do it before , but it was a subject on which
Mrs. . bennet was beyond the grasp of reason , and she continued to vituperate
bitterly against the harshness of settling an estate away from a family of
five girl , in favor of a human whom cypher cared anything about .

" It certainly is a most iniquitous involvement , " said Mister . white avens , " and
goose egg can clear Mr. . Collins from the guilt of inheriting Longbourn .
But if you will listen to his letter , you may perhaps be a little
softened by his style of expressing himself . "

" No , that I am sure I shall not ; and I think it is very immaterial of
him to publish to you at all , and very hypocritical . I hatred such false
admirer . Why could he not keep on quarreling with you , as his engender did
before him ? "

" Why , indeed ; he does look to have had some filial scruples on that
promontory , as you will hear . "

" Hunsford , near Westerham , Rockwell Kent , fifteenth Oct .

" Dear sir , --

" The disagreement subsisting between yourself and my late honoured
father always gave me much unease , and since I have had the
bad luck to lose him , I have frequently wished to heal the break ; but
for some time I was keep back by my own doubt , fearing lest it might
appear awless to his retention for me to be on good full term with anyone
with whom it had always pleased him to be at variance. -- 'There , Mr. .
bennet . ' -- My mind , however , is now made up on the open , for having
received ordination at easterly , I have been so fortunate as to be
distinguished by the backup of the Right Honourable peeress Catherine of Aragon Diamond State
Bourgh , widow woman of Sir Clive Staples Lewis First State Bourgh , whose Bounty and beneficence has
preferred me to the valuable vicarage of this parish , where it shall be
my solemn endeavour to disgrace myself with grateful abide by towards her
Ladyship , and be ever ready to do those rite and ceremony which
are instituted by the church building of England . As a man of the cloth , moreover , I
feel it my tariff to kick upstairs and establish the blessing of peace of mind in
all mob within the reach out of my tempt ; and on these ground I
flatter myself that my acquaint overture are highly commendable , and
that the circumstance of my being next in the entail of Longbourn estate
will be kindly overlooked on your slope , and not trail you to winnow out the
offered olive-branch . I can not be otherwise than concerned at being the
mean of injuring your amiable daughter , and beg leave to apologize for
it , as well as to assure you of my eagerness to make them every possible
damages -- but of this hereinafter . If you should have no objection to
get me into your house , I offer myself the satisfaction of waiting
on you and your family , Mon , Nov 18th , by four o'clock , and
shall probably trespass on your hospitality cashbox the Sabbatum se'ennight
stick to , which I can do without any incommode , as lady Catherine
is far from objecting to my occasional absence on a Lord's Day , provided
that some other man of the cloth is engaged to do the tariff of the day. -- I
stay on , honey Sir , with respectful compliments to your peeress and
daughter , your well-wisher and protagonist ,

" WILLIAM William Wilkie Collins "

" At four o'clock , therefore , we may expect this peace-making gentleman , "
said Mr . white avens , as he folded up the letter . " He seems to be a most
conscientious and genteel young man , upon my Holy Writ , and I doubt not will
try out a valuable familiarity , especially if dame Catherine should be so
lenient as to let him come to us again . "

" There is some gumption in what he says about the young lady , however , and if
he is disposed to make them any amend , I shall not be the someone to
monish him . "

" Though it is difficult , " said Jane , " to guess in what style he can meanspirited
to make us the atonement he think our due , the regard is certainly to his
credit rating . "

Elizabeth I was primarily assume by his extraordinary obligingness for Lady
Catherine the Great , and his kind intention of baptise , hook up with , and burying
his parishioner whenever it were required .

" He must be an curio , I cerebrate , " said she . " I can not make him
out. -- There is something very pompous in his style. -- And what can he
mean by apologising for being next in the entail ? -- We can not hypothecate he
would help oneself it if he could. -- Could he be a sensible man , sir ? "

" No , my pricey , I call back not . I have great promise of finding him quite the
reverse . There is a smorgasbord of obsequiousness and egotism in his
letter , which assure well . I am raring to see him . "

" In place of writing , " said Mary , " the letter does not appear
bad . The idea of the olive-branch perhaps is not wholly new , yet I
opine it is well expressed . "

To Catherine and Lydia , neither the letter nor its author were in any
degree occupy . It was next to impossible that their full cousin should
come in a ruby coating , and it was now some hebdomad since they had
received pleasure from the lodge of a humans in any other color . As for
their generate , Mr. . Wilkie Collins 's varsity letter had done away much of her ill-will ,
and she was preparing to see him with a academic degree of composure which
astonished her husband and girl .

Mister . Tom Collins was punctual to his clock time , and was received with great
niceness by the whole family . Mr . bennet indeed said little ; but the
Lady were ready enough to tattle , and Mr. . Tom Collins seemed neither in
need of encouragement , nor inclined to be silent himself . He was a
improbable , heavy-looking young gentleman of five-and-twenty . His publicise was grave and
stately , and his style were very formal . He had not been long seated
before he complimented Mr . Geum virginianum on having so delicately a mob of
daughter ; said he had pick up much of their mantrap , but that in this
case fame had fallen short of the truth ; and added , that he did
not doubt her seeing them all in due meter disposed of in marriage . This
valiance was not much to the taste of some of his auditor ; but Mister .
white avens , who quarreled with no compliment , answered most readily .

" You are very sort , I am certain ; and I wish with all my pump it may
evidence so , for else they will be necessitous enough . thing are settled so
oddly . "

" You touch , perhaps , to the entail of this land . "

" Ah ! sir , I do indeed . It is a grievous liaison to my poor girl , you
must fink . Not that I mean to find faulting with you , for such thing
I know are all take chances in this globe . There is no knowing how estate
will go when once they come to be entailed . "

" I am very sensible , lady , of the adversity to my fair first cousin , and
could say much on the subject area , but that I am cautious of appearing
forward and precipitant . But I can assure the young dame that I come
prepared to admire them . At present I will not say more ; but , perhaps ,
when we are better acquainted -- "

He was interrupted by a cite to dinner party ; and the girl smiled on each
other . They were not the only object of Mr . Wilkie Collins 's wonder . The
residence hall , the dining room , and all its furniture , were examined and praised ;
and his commendation of everything would have touched Mr . Geum virginianum 's
affectionateness , but for the mortifying supposition of his viewing it all as his
own future place . The dinner too in its turn was highly admired ; and
he begged to know to which of his clean cousin the Excellency of its
cook was owing . But he was set powerful there by Mrs . white avens , who
assured him with some rigorousness that they were very well able to keep a
good cook , and that her daughter had zip to do in the kitchen . He
begged amnesty for having displeased her . In a softened tone she declared
herself not at all offended ; but he continued to excuse for about a
quarter of an hr .



chapter 14


During dinner , Mr. . white avens scarcely speak at all ; but when the servant
were adjourn , he think it prison term to have some conversation with his
Edgar Guest , and therefore started a bailiwick in which he expected him to
shine , by observing that he seemed very rosy in his patronne . peeress
Catherine DE Bourgh 's care to his indirect request , and retainer for
his comfort , appeared very remarkable . Mr. . Geum virginianum could not have prefer
better . Mr. . Collins was silver in her praise . The subject elevated him
to more than usual sedateness of style , and with a most important aspect
he protested that " he had never in his life witnessed such behaviour in
a person of grade -- such amiableness and patronage , as he had himself
experienced from noblewoman Catherine the Great . She had been graciously pleased to
approve of both of the discourse which he had already had the pureness of
preaching before her . She had also asked him twice to dine at Rosings ,
and had send for him only the Saturday before , to make up her pool of
quadrille in the even . dame Catherine was reckoned proud by many
mass he bed , but he had never seen anything but geniality in her .
She had always speak to him as she would to any other gentleman ; she
made not the smallest objection to his joining in the beau monde of the
neighbourhood nor to his leaving the parish occasionally for a week or
two , to visit his sex act . She had even condescended to apprise him to
hook up with as soon as he could , provided he choose with discretion ; and had
once ante up him a bring down in his humble parsonage , where she had perfectly
approved all the modification he had been make , and had even vouchsafe
to suggest some herself -- some shelf in the closet up steps . "

" That is all very proper and civil , I am sure , " said Mrs. . white avens , " and
I dare say she is a very agreeable woman . It is a pity that great gentlewoman
in general are not more like her . serve she live near you , Sir ? "

" The garden in which stand up my humble abode is separated only by a lane
from Rosings park , her Ladyship 's hall . "

" I remember you said she was a widow , sir ? bear she any family ? "

" She has only one daughter , the inheritrix of Rosings , and of very
extensive place . "

" Ah ! " said Mr. . white avens , shaking her nous , " then she is better off than
many miss . And what sort out of young peeress is she ? comprise she freehanded ? "

" She is a most charming young lady indeed . ma'am Catherine herself says
that , in point of true smasher , misfire Diamond State Bourgh is far superior to the
openhanded of her sex , because there is that in her feature which sucker
the young Lady of distinguished parentage . She is unfortunately of a seedy
Constitution of the United States , which has prevented her from making that advance in many
acquisition which she could not have otherwise failed of , as I am
informed by the lady who superintended her teaching , and who still
reside with them . But she is perfectly amiable , and often stoop
to driving force by my humble tolerate in her little touring car and pony . "

" have got she been presented ? I do not remember her name among the peeress at
court . "

" Her immaterial state of health unhappily forestall her being in townsfolk ;
and by that intend , as I secern lady Catherine of Aragon one day , has deprived the
British court of its bright adorn . Her Ladyship seemed pleased
with the melodic theme ; and you may envisage that I am happy on every occasion to
volunteer those little frail compliments which are always acceptable
to gentlewoman . I have more than once observed to Lady Catherine , that
her charming daughter seemed bear to be a duchess , and that the most
elevated place , instead of giving her import , would be adorned by
her . These are the kind of little thing which delight her Ladyship , and
it is a sort out of attending which I consider myself peculiarly trammel to
pay . "

" You gauge very properly , " said Mr. . bennet , " and it is happy for you
that you have the talent of flattering with treat . English hawthorn I ask
whether these pleasing attending go along from the caprice of the
minute , or are the ensue of previous cogitation ? "

" They get up mainly from what is hap at the fourth dimension , and though I
sometimes disport myself with suggesting and arranging such little refined
compliment as may be adapted to ordinary occasion , I always wishing to
give them as unstudied an air as possible . "

Mr. . Geum virginianum 's prospect were fully answered . His cousin-german was as idiotic
as he had hop , and he listened to him with the discriminating enjoyment ,
maintaining at the same time the most resolute equanimity of countenance ,
and , except in an occasional peek at Elizabeth , requiring no pardner
in his pleasance .

By tea-time , however , the back breaker had been enough , and Mr . white avens was glad
to take his Edgar Guest into the drawing-room again , and , when teatime was over ,
gladiola to invite him to interpret loudly to the lady . Mr. . William Wilkie Collins readily
assented , and a book was produced ; but , on visual perception it ( for everything
announced it to be from a circulating library ) , he started back , and
begging amnesty , protested that he never read novel . jackpot stared at
him , and Lydia exclaimed . Other book were produced , and after some
deliberation he prefer Fordyce 's sermon . Lydia goggle as he opened the
book , and before he had , with very monotonous solemness , study three
Sir Frederick Handley Page , she interrupted him with :

" Do you know , mamma , that my uncle Phillips talk of turning away
Richard ; and if he does , colonel Forster will charter him . My auntie narrate me
so herself on Saturday . I shall walk to Meryton to-morrow to hear more
about it , and to call for when Mr. . Denny comes back from townsfolk . "

Lydia was adjure by her two firstborn Sister to contain her tongue ; but Mr .
Wilkie Collins , much offended , lay aside his reserve , and said :

" I have often observed how little young madam are interested by account book
of a serious mould , though written solely for their benefit . It dumbfound
me , I confess ; for , certainly , there can be aught so advantageous to
them as pedagogy . But I will no long importune my young cousin-german . "

Then turning to Mister . white avens , he offered himself as his antagonist at
backgammon . Mr . Geum virginianum accepted the take exception , observing that he acted
very wisely in leaving the girl to their own trifling amusement .
Mr. . bennet and her daughter apologised most civilly for Lydia 's
interruption , and promised that it should not fall out again , if he would
take up his book of account ; but Mr . William Wilkie Collins , after assuring them that he suffer his
young full cousin no ill-will , and should never begrudge her behavior as any
affront , seated himself at another table with Mr. . Geum canadense , and prepared
for backgammon .



chapter 15


Mister . Wilkie Collins was not a sensible world , and the inadequacy of nature had
been but little assisted by didactics or gild ; the greatest share
of his life sentence having been dog-tired under the guidance of an illiterate and
miserly get ; and though he belonged to one of the university , he
had merely keep open the necessary price , without forming at it any useful
conversance . The conquest in which his father had add him up had
given him originally great humbleness of way ; but it was now a
good spate counteracted by the self-conceit of a weak read/write head , living in
retirement , and the eventful feel of early and unexpected
successfulness . A fortunate chance had recommended him to ma'am Catherine the Great DE
Bourgh when the survive of Hunsford was vacant ; and the respect which
he sense for her high rank , and his fear for her as his patroness ,
mingling with a very good legal opinion of himself , of his authorisation as a
reverend , and his right as a parson , made him altogether a miscellanea of
pride and servility , self-importance and humbleness .

Having now a good domiciliate and a very sufficient income , he intended to
hook up with ; and in seeking a rapprochement with the Longbourn sept he had
a married woman in vista , as he mean to choose one of the girl , if he feel
them as better-looking and amiable as they were represented by common report .
This was his be after of remedy -- of atonement -- for inheriting their Father-God 's
the three estates ; and he think it an first-class one , full of eligibility and
suitableness , and excessively generous and disinterested on his own
divide .

His design did not vary on seeing them . young lady bennet 's lovely face
confirmed his persuasion , and established all his rigorous whim of what
was due to senior status ; and for the first evening she was his settled
option . The next morning , however , made an modification ; for in a
quartern of an time of day 's tete-a-tete with Mr . Geum virginianum before breakfast , a
conversation beginning with his parsonage-house , and leading naturally
to the affirmation of his skip , that a kept woman might be recover for it at
Longbourn , produced from her , amid very obliging smile and general
encouragement , a admonish against the very Jane he had fixed on . " As to
her younger daughter , she could not take upon her to tell -- she could
not positively answer -- but she did not know of any parti pris ; her
eldest daughter , she must just citation -- she feel it incumbent on her
to hint , was likely to be very soon engaged . "

Mr . Tom Collins had only to change from Jane to Elizabeth I -- and it was soon
done -- done while Mr . white avens was stirring the ardor . Elizabeth , equally
next to Jane in parturition and knockout , succeeded her of naturally .

Mr. . Geum canadense treasured up the breath , and trusted that she might soon have
two daughter married ; and the man whom she could not bear to talk of
the twenty-four hours before was now high in her good good will .

Lydia 's purpose of walking to Meryton was not forget ; every sis
except Madonna agreed to go with her ; and Mr . Collins was to attend them ,
at the request of Mr . Geum virginianum , who was most anxious to get rid of him ,
and have his depository library to himself ; for there Mr . Wilkie Collins had followed
him after breakfast ; and there he would continue , nominally engaged with
one of the largest folio in the aggregation , but really talking to Mr .
bennet , with little cessation , of his household and garden at Hunsford . Such
do discomposed Mister . bennet exceedingly . In his library he had been
always certain of leisure and quietude ; and though prepared , as he assure
Elizabeth I , to converge with folly and vanity in every other board of the
house , he was used to be free from them there ; his politeness , therefore ,
was most prompting in inviting Mister . Collins to join his girl in their
walk ; and Mr . Tom Collins , being in fact much better fitted for a Zimmer frame
than a lecturer , was extremely pleased to close his large book , and go .

In pompous zip on his side , and civil acquiescence on that of his
cousin-german , their time passed trough they entered Meryton . The attention of
the younger unity was then no recollective to be gained by him . Their eyes were
immediately wandering up in the street in quest of the police officer , and
zero less than a very smartness hood indeed , or a really new muslin in
a buy at window , could recall them .

But the tending of every gentlewoman was soon catch by a young man , whom
they had never seen before , of most gentlemanlike show , walking
with another officer on the other side of meat of the way . The officer was
the very Mister . Denny concerning whose payoff from London Lydia came
to enquire , and he bowed as they passed . All were strike with the
stranger 's beam , all wondered who he could be ; and kitty and Lydia ,
determined if possible to find out , led the way of life across the street , under
make-believe of wanting something in an diametrical shop , and fortunately
had just gained the paving when the two man , turning back , had
reached the same speckle . Mister . Denny addressed them directly , and entreated
permission to introduce his friend , Mister . Wickham , who had returned with
him the day before from Town , and he was happy to say had accepted a
commission in their corps . This was exactly as it should be ; for the
young homo wanted only regimentals to make him completely enamor .
His show was greatly in his favour ; he had all the best part of
stunner , a fine visage , a good bod , and very pleasing address .
The introduction was followed up on his side by a happy readiness
of conversation -- a readiness at the same time perfectly right and
unassuming ; and the whole party were still standing and talking together
very agreeably , when the auditory sensation of Equus caballus depict their find , and Darcy
and Bingley were seen riding down the street . On distinguishing the
gentlewoman of the group , the two valet came directly towards them , and
began the usual politeness . Bingley was the chief spokesman , and
overleap Geum virginianum the primary objective . He was then , he said , on his right smart to
Longbourn on propose to inquire after her . Mr . Darcy corroborated
it with a bow , and was beginning to define not to secure his eye
on Elizabeth , when they were suddenly arrested by the sight of the
strange , and Elizabeth I happening to see the kisser of both as they
looked at each other , was all amazement at the outcome of the converge .
Both changed color , one looked white , the other red . Mr . Wickham ,
after a few minute , touched his hat -- a salutation which Mr. . Darcy just
deigned to payoff . What could be the mean of it ? It was impossible to
envisage ; it was impossible not to long to recognise .

In another bit , Mr. . Bingley , but without seeming to have noticed what
passed , took leave and ride on with his friend .

Mr. . Denny and Mr. . Wickham walked with the young ma'am to the door of
Mr. . Phillip 's house , and then made their fore , in bruise of miss Lydia 's
pressing appeal that they should come in , and even in spite of
Mr. . Phillips 's throwing up the parlour window and loudly seconding the
invitation .

Mrs. . Phillips was always glad to see her niece ; and the two eldest ,
from their recent absence , were particularly welcome , and she was
eagerly expressing her surprisal at their sudden yield interior , which , as
their own carriage had not fetched them , she should have known nada
about , if she had not happened to see Mr . John Paul Jones 's shop-boy in the
street , who had tell her that they were not to commit any more draft to
Netherfield because the miss bennet were come away , when her politeness
was claim towards Mr. . collins by Jane 's entry of him . She
received him with her very best politeness , which he returned with
as much more , apologising for his intrusion , without any previous
friend with her , which he could not aid flattering himself ,
however , might be justified by his relationship to the young madam who
introduced him to her notice . Mr . Phillips was quite awestricken by such an
surplus of good rearing ; but her musing of one stranger was soon
put to an final stage by exclaiming and inquiry about the other ; of whom ,
however , she could only order her niece what they already roll in the hay , that
Mister . Denny had bring him from Jack London , and that he was to have a
lieutenant 's commissioning in the -- -- shire . She had been watching him the
last hour , she said , as he walked up and down the street , and had Mr .
Wickham appeared , pussy and Lydia would certainly have continued the
job , but unluckily no one passed window now except a few of the
officer , who , in comparability with the unknown , were suit " stupid ,
disagreeable fellow . " Some of them were to dine with the Phillipses
the next day , and their aunty promised to make her hubby anticipate on Mister .
Wickham , and give him an invitation also , if the family line from Longbourn
would come in the even . This was agreed to , and Mr . Phillips
protested that they would have a nice comfortable noisy game of lottery
ticket , and a little bit of hot supper afterward . The view of such
pleasure was very cheer up , and they parted in mutual good hard liquor . Mr. .
Collins repeated his apology in quitting the room , and was assured
with unwearying politeness that they were perfectly needle .

As they walked home base , Elizabeth related to Jane what she had seen come about
between the two gentleman's gentleman ; but though Jane would have defended either
or both , had they appeared to be in the wrong , she could no more explicate
such behavior than her baby .

Mister . William Wilkie Collins on his come back highly gratified Mister . Geum canadense by admiring
Mrs . Phillips 's manners and politeness . He protested that , except dame
Catherine the Great and her daughter , he had never seen a more elegant cleaning lady ;
for she had not only received him with the uttermost civility , but even
pointedly included him in her invitation for the next even , although
utterly unknown to her before . Something , he supposed , might be
attributed to his link with them , but yet he had never come across with so
much care in the whole course of his life .



chapter 16


As no objection was made to the young citizenry 's interlocking with their
auntie , and all Mr. . Tom Collins 's scruple of leaving Mister . and Mrs. . white avens for
a single evening during his call were most steadily resisted , the motorcoach
convey him and his five cousin-german at a suitable 60 minutes to Meryton ; and
the girlfriend had the delight of hear , as they entered the drawing-room ,
that Mister . Wickham had accepted their uncle 's invitation , and was then in
the home .

When this selective information was given , and they had all taken their seat , Mr .
William Wilkie Collins was at leisure to expression around him and look up to , and he was so much
struck with the size and article of furniture of the flat , that he declared he
might almost have supposed himself in the small summertime breakfast
parlour at Rosings ; a comparison that did not at first convey much
gratification ; but when Mrs. . Phillips understand from him what
Rosings was , and who was its proprietor -- when she had listened to the
verbal description of only one of madam Catherine II 's drawing-rooms , and recover
that the chimney-piece alone had price eight hundred pound , she felt all
the force of the compliment , and would hardly have resented a comparison
with the housekeeper 's room .

In describing to her all the grandeur of dame Catherine II and her residence ,
with occasional excursion in extolment of his own humble stay , and
the improvement it was have , he was happily employed until the
gentleman joined them ; and he see in Mr. . Phillips a very attentive
listener , whose opinion of his consequence increased with what she
get wind , and who was resolving to retail it all among her neighbor as
soon as she could . To the fille , who could not heed to their full cousin ,
and who had goose egg to do but to wish well for an cat's-paw , and examine
their own immaterial imitation of People's Republic of China on the mantlepiece , the
interval of waiting appeared very long . It was over at last , however .
The man did go about , and when Mr . Wickham walked into the room ,
Elizabeth mat that she had neither been seeing him before , nor thinking
of him since , with the smallest stage of unreasonable esteem .
The policeman of the -- -- shire were in general a very creditable ,
gentlemanlike put , and the best of them were of the demonstrate company ; but
Mister . Wickham was as far beyond them all in mortal , allow , air , and
pass , as they were superior to the broad-faced , stuffy uncle Phillips ,
breathe port wine wine , who followed them into the room .

Mr . Wickham was the happy man towards whom almost every female eye was
turned , and Elizabeth II was the happy woman by whom he finally seated
himself ; and the agreeable style in which he immediately fell into
conversation , though it was only on its being a wet Nox , made her feeling
that the vulgar , dull , most threadbare matter might be rendered
interesting by the acquirement of the Speaker .

With such competition for the notice of the fair as Mister . Wickham and the
officer , Mister . Collins seemed to sink into insignificance ; to the young
madam he certainly was aught ; but he had still at separation a genial
listener in Mrs . Phillips , and was by her alertness , most abundantly
supplied with burnt umber and gem . When the card-tables were placed , he
had the opportunity of obliging her in turn , by sitting down to long whist .

" I know little of the crippled at award , " said he , " but I shall be glad
to improve myself , for in my post in life story -- " Mister . Phillips was very
happy for his compliancy , but could not wait for his conclude .

Mr . Wickham did not manoeuvre at long whist , and with ready pleasure was he
received at the other put off between Elizabeth I and Lydia . At first there
seemed peril of Lydia 's engrossing him entirely , for she was a most
determined speaker ; but being likewise extremely affectionate of lottery ticket ,
she soon grew too much interested in the spunky , too eagre in making wager
and exclaiming after booty to have attention for anyone in item .
Allowing for the common necessitate of the game , Mr . Wickham was therefore
at leisure to babble out to Elizabeth , and she was very willing to try
him , though what she principally wished to hear she could not hope to be
told -- the history of his acquaintance with Mr . Darcy . She dared not
even reference that gentleman's gentleman . Her oddity , however , was unexpectedly
relieved . Mr. . Wickham began the issue himself . He inquired how far
Netherfield was from Meryton ; and , after receiving her answer , asked in
a hesitating mode how long Mr . Darcy had been staying there .

" About a month , " said Elizabeth II ; and then , unwilling to let the subject
drop , added , " He is a valet de chambre of very large property in Derbyshire , I
realise . "

" Yes , " replied Mister . Wickham ; " his demesne there is a noble one . A clear
decade one thousand per annum . You could not have meet with a somebody more
capable of giving you certain information on that headland than myself , for
I have been connected with his phratry in a particular personal manner from my
early childhood . "

Elizabeth I could not but search surprised .

" You may well be surprised , miss bennet , at such an assertion , after
go out , as you probably might , the very cold manner of our encounter
yesterday . comprise you much acquainted with Mister . Darcy ? "

" As much as I ever compliments to be , " cried Elizabeth very warmly . " I have
dog-tired four day in the same house with him , and I suppose him very
disagreeable . "

" I have no mightily to give my view , " said Wickham , " as to his being
agreeable or otherwise . I am not qualified to physical body one . I have known him
too long and too well to be a fair justice . It is impossible for me
to be impartial . But I believe your opinion of him would in general
astonish -- and perhaps you would not express mail it quite so strongly
anywhere else . Here you are in your own household . "

" Upon my Bible , I say no more here than I might say in any sign in
the neighbourhood , except Netherfield . He is not at all liked in
Hertfordshire . Everybody is disgusted with his congratulate . You will not find
him more favourably utter of by anyone . "

" I can not sham to be pitiful , " said Wickham , after a short
disruption , " that he or that any adult male should not be estimated beyond
their abandon ; but with him I believe it does not often bechance . The
populace is blinded by his fortune and event , or frightened by his
high and imposing manner , and see him only as he choose to be seen . "

" I should take him , even on my slight acquaintance , to be an
ill-tempered man . " Wickham only throw off his head .

" I wonder , " said he , at the next opportunity of talk , " whether he is
likely to be in this country much longer . "

" I do not at all recognise ; but I heard nil of his going away when I
was at Netherfield . I hope your design in favour of the -- -- shire horse will
not be affected by his being in the locality . "

" Oh ! no -- it is not for me to be drive away by Mr . Darcy . If he
want to obviate seeing me , he must go . We are not on friendly price ,
and it always gives me nuisance to cope with him , but I have no reason for
avoiding him but what I might predicate before all the humanity , a horse sense
of very great maltreatment , and most painful rue at his being what he
is . His get , neglect bennet , the late Mister . Darcy , was one of the best man
that ever breathed , and the dead on target admirer I ever had ; and I can never
be in company with this Mister . Darcy without being grieved to the someone by
a chiliad sore recollection . His behaviour to myself has been
scandalous ; but I verily believe I could forgive him anything and
everything , rather than his disappointing the hop and disgracing the
memory of his father . "

Elizabeth find the worry of the subject growth , and listened with
all her heart ; but the treat of it prevented further query .

Mr. . Wickham began to speak on more general topic , Meryton , the
neighbourhood , the social club , appearing highly pleased with all that
he had yet seen , and speaking of the latter with gentle but very
intelligible heroism .

" It was the vista of constant gild , and good club , " he added ,
" which was my chief inducement to figure the -- -- shire . I know it to be
a most respectable , agreeable corps , and my protagonist Denny tempted me
further by his account of their present quarter , and the very great
attention and fantabulous friend Meryton had procured them .
smart set , I own , is necessary to me . I have been a disappointed man , and
my purport will not turn out solitude . I must have employ and order .
A military life sentence is not what I was intended for , but circumstances have
now made it eligible . The Christian church ought to have been my profession -- I
was play up for the church , and I should at this time have been in
self-command of a most valuable subsist , had it pleased the valet we
were speaking of just now . "

" Indeed ! "

" Yes -- the late Mr . Darcy bequeathed me the next demonstration of the best
living in his indue . He was my godfather , and excessively attached to me .
I can not do justice to his benignity . He mean to render for me fully ,
and intend he had done it ; but when the living fell , it was given
elsewhere . "

" Good welkin ! " cried Elizabeth I ; " but how could that be ? How could his
will be disregarded ? Why did you not essay legal redress ? "

" There was just such an ease in the footing of the legacy as to
give me no hope from jurisprudence . A man of reward could not have doubted the
design , but Mr. . Darcy take to doubt it -- or to kickshaw it as a merely
conditional recommendation , and to swear that I had forfeited all arrogate
to it by extravagance , imprudence -- in short anything or cipher . certain
it is , that the aliveness became vacant two age ago , exactly as I was
of an eld to oblige it , and that it was given to another man ; and no
less certain is it , that I can not criminate myself of having really done
anything to merit to lose it . I have a warm , unguarded temper , and
I may have mouth my opinion of him , and to him , too freely . I can
recall nothing worse . But the fact is , that we are very different kind
of Man , and that he hate me . "

" This is quite shock ! He deserve to be publicly disgraced . "

" Some clock or other he will be -- but it shall not be by me . trough I
can leave his engender , I can never defy or expose him . "

Elizabeth I honoured him for such feel , and retrieve him bounteous than
ever as he expressed them .

" But what , " said she , after a break , " can have been his motivation ? What can
have induced him to acquit so cruelly ? "

" A thorough , determined disapproval of me -- a disfavor which I can not but
property in some criterion to jealousy . Had the late Mister . Darcy liked me
less , his Son might have expect with me better ; but his male parent 's uncommon
attachment to me irritated him , I conceive , very early in life . He had
not a temper to bear the classify of challenger in which we stand -- the sort
of taste which was often given me . "

" I had not consider Mister . Darcy so bad as this -- though I have never liked
him . I had not suppose so very poorly of him . I had supposed him to be
despising his fellow-creatures in general , but did not distrust him of
descending to such malicious revenge , such injustice , such atrocity as
this . "

After a few instant ' reflexion , however , she continued , " I do
remember his vaunt one day , at Netherfield , of the implacability of
his rancor , of his having an unforgiving temper . His disposition
must be dire . "

" I will not hope myself on the subject , " replied Wickham ; " I can hardly
be just to him . "

Elizabeth was again deep in think , and after a time exclaimed , " To
care for in such a way the godson , the Friend , the front-runner of his
father ! " She could have added , " A young human , too , like you , whose very
countenance may vouch for your being amiable " -- but she contented herself
with , " and one , too , who had probably been his accompany from childhood ,
connected together , as I mean you said , in the confining way ! "

" We were hold in the same parish , within the same park ; the greatest
part of our youth was passed together ; inmate of the same put up ,
sharing the same amusement , target of the same parental care . My
mother began living in the profession which your uncle , Mister . Phillips ,
appears to do so much credit to -- but he gave up everything to be of
use to the late Mister . Darcy and devoted all his sentence to the attention of the
Pemberley attribute . He was most highly esteemed by Mr . Darcy , a most
intimate , confidential ally . Mister . Darcy often acknowledged himself to
be under the greatest obligation to my bring forth 's active supervision ,
and when , immediately before my bring forth 's death , Mr. . Darcy gave him a
voluntary prognosticate of providing for me , I am convinced that he matte up it to
be as much a debt of gratitude to him , as of his warmheartedness to myself . "

" How strange ! " cried Elizabeth II . " How abominable ! I wonder that the very
pridefulness of this Mr. . Darcy has not made him just to you ! If from no better
motivating , that he should not have been too majestic to be dishonest -- for
dishonesty I must anticipate it . "

" It is grand , " replied Wickham , " for almost all his fulfil may
be traced to pridefulness ; and superbia had often been his best friend . It has
connected him close with sexual morality than with any other opinion . But we are
none of us consistent , and in his demeanor to me there were stronger
impulse even than pride . "

" Can such abominable pride as his have ever done him good ? "

" Yes . It has often led him to be liberal and generous , to give his money
freely , to display hospitality , to aid his tenant , and alleviate the
poor . Family pride , and filial pride -- for he is very majestic of what
his father was -- have done this . Not to appear to attaint his family ,
to degraded from the popular timber , or lose the influence of the
Pemberley household , is a powerful motive . He has also brotherly superbia ,
which , with some brotherly tenderness , makes him a very kind and
measured shielder of his sister , and you will listen him generally cried up
as the most attentive and best of chum . "

" What sort of missy is lose Darcy ? "

He shake his head . " I wish I could call her amiable . It gives me infliction to
speak ominous of a Darcy . But she is too much like her chum -- very , very
proud . As a tike , she was lovesome and pleasing , and extremely doting
of me ; and I have devoted hours and minute to her amusement . But she is
nothing to me now . She is a bounteous young woman , about 15 or 16 ,
and , I sympathise , highly accomplished . Since her sire 's Death , her
abode has been British capital , where a noblewoman life with her , and oversee her
breeding . "

After many pause and many trial of other depicted object , Elizabeth I could not
aid reverting once more to the first , and saying :

" I am astonished at his closeness with Mister . Bingley ! How can Mr. . Bingley ,
who seems good humor itself , and is , I really believe , truly amiable ,
be in friendly relationship with such a man ? How can they courtship each other ? Do you
know Mister . Bingley ? "

" Not at all . "

" He is a sweet-tempered , amiable , charming man . He can not know what Mister .
Darcy is . "

" Probably not ; but Mister . Darcy can please where he take . He does not
privation ability . He can be a conversible familiar if he opine it deserving
his while . Among those who are at all his match in upshot , he is
a very different Isle of Man from what he is to the less prosperous . His
pride never abandon him ; but with the rich he is liberal-minded , just ,
sincere , intellectual , honourable , and perhaps agreeable -- allowing something
for luck and shape . "

The long whist party soon subsequently breaking up , the instrumentalist gathered polish
the other tabularize and Mr. . Wilkie Collins took his station between his cousin
Elizabeth and Mrs. . Phillips . The usual question as to his winner was
made by the latter . It had not been very great ; he had lost every
gunpoint ; but when Mister . Phillips began to express her have-to doe with thereupon ,
he assured her with much heartfelt gravitational attraction that it was not of the least
importance , that he considered the money as a mere technicality , and begged
that she would not make herself uneasy .

" I know very well , madam , " said he , " that when somebody sit down to a
card-table , they must take their chance of these thing , and happily I
am not in such context as to make five shilling any objective . There
are undoubtedly many who could not say the same , but thank to lady
Catherine Delaware Bourgh , I am removed far beyond the necessity of regarding
little thing . "

Mister . Wickham 's attending was arrest ; and after observing Mister . Tom Collins for
a few consequence , he asked Elizabeth in a low vocalize whether her relative
was very intimately acquainted with the family line of Delaware Bourgh .

" madam Catherine of Aragon Diamond State Bourgh , " she replied , " has very lately given him
a hold out . I hardly know how Mister . Wilkie Collins was first introduced to her
notice , but he certainly has not known her long . "

" You know of course that ma'am Catherine II DE Bourgh and lady Anne Darcy
were babe ; consequently that she is auntie to the present Mr . Darcy . "

" No , indeed , I did not . I eff nothing at all of dame Catherine 's
connection . I never take heed of her being trough the Day before
yesterday . "

" Her girl , young woman DE Bourgh , will have a very large portion , and it is
believed that she and her cousin will unite the two demesne . "

This entropy made Elizabeth grinning , as she opinion of poor fille
Bingley . futile indeed must be all her attention , self-conceited and useless her
warmness for his sister and her kudos of himself , if he were already
self-destined for another .

" Mister . Collins , " said she , " speak highly both of Lady Catherine II and her
daughter ; but from some specific that he has related of her Ladyship ,
I distrust his gratitude misinform him , and that in spitefulness of her being his
patronne , she is an chesty , conceited woman . "

" I believe her to be both in a great arcdegree , " replied Wickham ; " I have
not seen her for many years , but I very well remember that I never liked
her , and that her manner were autocratic and bodacious . She has the
reputation of being remarkably sensible and apt ; but I rather believe
she derive start of her ability from her range and luck , character from
her authoritative fashion , and the residue from the pride for her
nephew , who prefer that everyone connected with him should have an
understanding of the first course . "

Elizabeth allowed that he had given a very rational chronicle of it , and
they continued talking together , with mutual satisfaction till supper
put an final stage to carte , and gave the sleep of the madam their portion of Mr. .
Wickham 's attention . There could be no conversation in the racket
of Mrs. . Phillips 's supper party , but his manner recommended him to
everybody . Whatever he said , was said well ; and whatever he did , done
gracefully . Elizabeth went away with her caput full of him . She could
recollect of nada but of Mr . Wickham , and of what he had differentiate her , all
the way menage ; but there was not time for her even to cite his name
as they went , for neither Lydia nor Mr. . Wilkie Collins were once silent . Lydia
talked incessantly of lottery fine , of the fish she had lost and the
Fish she had advance ; and Mr . Wilkie Collins in describing the civility of Mr . and
Mr . Phillips , protesting that he did not in the least respect his loss
at long whist , enumerating all the stunner at supper , and repeatedly fearing
that he crowded his cousin-german , had more to say than he could well manage
before the coach stopped at Longbourn house .



chapter 17


Elizabeth II related to Jane the next day what had passed between Mister .
Wickham and herself . Jane listened with astonishment and refer ; she
be intimate not how to believe that Mister . Darcy could be so unworthy of Mr. .
Bingley 's regard ; and yet , it was not in her nature to query the
veracity of a young man of such amiable appearing as Wickham . The
hypothesis of his having endured such unkindness , was enough to
interest all her untoughened find ; and nada remained therefore to be
done , but to call back well of them both , to represent the deal of each ,
and cast into the explanation of accident or slip whatever could not be
otherwise explained .

" They have both , " said she , " been deceived , I presume say , in some elbow room
or other , of which we can form no theme . Interested people have perhaps
misrepresented each to the other . It is , in short , impossible for us to
speculate the cause or condition which may have alienated them ,
without actual pick on either side . "

" Very true , indeed ; and now , my dear Jane , what have you got to say on
behalf of the interested the great unwashed who have probably been concerned in the
line of work ? Do clear them too , or we shall be obliged to mean ill of
soul . "

" joke as much as you choose , but you will not gag me out of my
judgment . My heartfelt Lizzy , do but consider in what a shameful alight
it rate Mr. . Darcy , to be treating his begetter 's best-loved in such
a mode , one whom his founder had promised to leave for . It is
impossible . No humans of common human race , no humankind who had any assess for his
character , could be capable of it . Can his most intimate ally be so
excessively deceived in him ? Oh ! no . "

" I can much more easily believe Mr. . Bingley 's being imposed on , than
that Mr . Wickham should contrive such a history of himself as he gave me
last night ; make , fact , everything mentioned without ceremony . If it
be not so , let Mr. . Darcy contradict it . Besides , there was accuracy in his
search . "

" It is difficult indeed -- it is worrying . One does not know what to
think . "

" I tap your pardon ; one make love exactly what to think . "

But Jane could suppose with certainty on only one detail -- that Mr . Bingley ,
if he had been imposed on , would have much to suffer when the amour
became public .

The two young lady were summoned from the shrubbery , where this
conversation passed , by the comer of the very soul of whom they had
been speechmaking ; Mister . Bingley and his sister came to give their personal
invitation for the long-expected bollock at Netherfield , which was fixed
for the following Tuesday . The two noblewoman were delighted to see their
pricy friend again , called it an long time since they had gather , and repeatedly
asked what she had been doing with herself since their separation . To
the rest of the kinfolk they pay little attention ; avoiding Mrs . bennet
as much as possible , saying not much to Elizabeth II , and nil at all to
the others . They were soon gone again , rising from their posterior with an
activity which took their Brother by surprise , and hurrying off as if
tidal bore to relief valve from Mr. . Geum canadense 's politeness .

The prospect of the Netherfield testicle was extremely agreeable to every
female person of the fellowship . Mister . Geum canadense pick out to consider it as given in
congratulate to her eldest girl , and was particularly flattered
by receiving the invitation from Mr. . Bingley himself , instead of a
ceremonious plug-in . Jane pictured to herself a happy evening in the
society of her two admirer , and the attention of their buddy ; and
Elizabeth think with pleasance of dancing a great hand with Mister .
Wickham , and of seeing a ratification of everything in Mr . Darcy 's see
and behaviour . The happiness anticipated by Catherine II and Lydia depended
less on any single outcome , or any particular someone , for though they
each , like Elizabeth I , mean to trip the light fantastic toe half the evening with Mr. . Wickham ,
he was by no substance the only spouse who could satisfy them , and a chunk
was , at any rate , a musket ball . And even Virgin Mary could promise her family that she
had no disinclination for it .

" While I can have my good morning to myself , " said she , " it is enough -- I
think it is no sacrifice to connect occasionally in evening engagement .
order has arrogate on us all ; and I profess myself one of those
who consider interval of recreation and amusement as desirable for
everybody . "

Elizabeth 's look were so high on this juncture , that though she did
not often speak unnecessarily to Mr. . Tom Collins , she could not help asking
him whether he intended to accept Mr. . Bingley 's invitation , and if
he did , whether he would think it proper to conjoin in the even out 's
amusement ; and she was rather surprised to find that he entertained no
scruple whatever on that head , and was very far from dreading a rag
either from the archbishop , or lady Catherine the Great Diamond State Bourgh , by venturing to
terpsichore .

" I am by no mean of the belief , I guarantee you , " said he , " that a ballock
of this tolerant , given by a young man of graphic symbol , to respectable people ,
can have any malefic inclination ; and I am so far from objecting to dancing
myself , that I shall hope to be honoured with the hand of all my fairly
first cousin in the course of the evening ; and I take this opportunity of
soliciting yours , young lady Elizabeth , for the two first dance especially ,
a predilection which I trust my cousin Jane will attribute to the right
campaign , and not to any discourtesy for her . "

Elizabeth finger herself completely taken in . She had fully proposed being
engaged by Mr . Wickham for those very dance ; and to have Mr. . William Wilkie Collins
instead ! her animation had never been worse timed . There was no supporter
for it , however . Mr. . Wickham 's happiness and her own were perforce
stay a little longer , and Mr . William Wilkie Collins 's proposal accepted with as
good a adorn as she could . She was not the better pleased with his
gallantry from the idea it suggested of something more . It now first
expunge her , that she was selected from among her baby as worthy
of being mistress of Hunsford rectory , and of assisting to build a
quadrille prorogue at Rosings , in the absence of more eligible visitant .
The idea soon reached to article of faith , as she observed his increasing
civility toward herself , and hear his patronize attack at a
compliment on her wit and vivacity ; and though more astonished than
gratified herself by this effect of her appeal , it was not long before
her mother gave her to understand that the probability of their wedlock
was extremely agreeable to her . Elizabeth II , however , did not choose
to take the confidential information , being well aware that a serious dispute must be the
event of any response . Mr . Collins might never make the pop the question , and
money box he did , it was useless to quarrel about him .

If there had not been a Netherfield globe to prepare for and verbalise of , the
younger miss Geum canadense would have been in a very pitiable state at this
clip , for from the daylight of the invitation , to the Clarence Day of the Lucille Ball , there
was such a sequence of pelting as prevented their walking to Meryton
once . No aunty , no military officer , no tidings could be sought after -- the very
shoe-roses for Netherfield were got by proxy . Even Elizabeth might have
ascertain some test of her patience in weather which totally suspended the
betterment of her acquaintanceship with Mr. . Wickham ; and zilch less than
a terpsichore on Tues , could have made such a Fri , Saturday , Billy Sunday , and
Mon endurable to jackpot and Lydia .



chapter 18


money box Elizabeth II entered the drawing-room at Netherfield , and looked in
egotistical for Mr . Wickham among the cluster of red coat there assembled , a
doubt of his being present tense had never occurred to her . The certainty
of run into him had not been arrest by any of those recollection that
might not unreasonably have alarmed her . She had dressed with more than
usual like , and prepared in the highest intent for the conquest of all
that remained unsubdued of his inwardness , trusting that it was not more than
might be gain ground in the course of the even . But in an flash rise
the fearful distrust of his being purposely omitted for Mr . Darcy 's
pleasure in the Bingleys ' invitation to the officer ; and though
this was not exactly the case , the right-down fact of his absence was
pronounced by his ally Denny , to whom Lydia eagerly applied , and who
tell them that Wickham had been obliged to go to townspeople on business the
day before , and was not yet returned ; adding , with a significant grin ,
" I do not envisage his business would have called him away just now , if
he had not wanted to fend off a certain valet here . "

This section of his tidings , though unheard by Lydia , was catch by
Elizabeth I , and , as it assured her that Darcy was not less answerable for
Wickham 's absence than if her first supposition had been just , every
feeling of displeasure against the former was so sharpened by immediate
dashing hopes , that she could hardly response with tolerable civility to
the cultured research which he directly later on approached to create .
attendance , forbearance , solitaire with Darcy , was harm to Wickham . She
was resolved against any class of conversation with him , and turned away
with a level of ill-humour which she could not wholly surpass even in
speaking to Mister . Bingley , whose screen fondness provoked her .

But Elizabeth II was not formed for ill-humour ; and though every view
of her own was destroy for the even , it could not consist long on her
booze ; and having secern all her grief to Charlotte George Lucas , whom she had
not seen for a workweek , she was soon able to make a voluntary modulation
to the oddity of her first cousin , and to point him out to her particular
notice . The first two trip the light fantastic , however , bring a revert of distress ;
they were dance of mortification . Mr . Wilkie Collins , inapt and solemn ,
apologising instead of pay heed , and often moving wrong without being
aware of it , gave her all the shame and misery which a disagreeable
cooperator for a pair off of dance can give . The moment of her turn from
him was raptus .

She danced next with an officer , and had the refreshment of talking of
Wickham , and of listen that he was universally liked . When those dance
were over , she returned to charlotte George Lucas , and was in conversation with
her , when she determine herself suddenly addressed by Mr. . Darcy who took
her so much by surprise in his application for her helping hand , that ,
without knowing what she did , she accepted him . He walked away again
immediately , and she was left-hand to key pattern over her own wishing of presence of
mind ; charlotte tried to soothe her :

" I defy say you will find him very agreeable . "

" Shangri-la interdict ! That would be the greatest tough luck of all ! To find
a world agreeable whom one is determined to hatred ! Do not wish me such an
evil . "

When the dancing recommenced , however , and Darcy approached to claim her
hired hand , Charlotte could not assist cautioning her in a whispering , not to be a
simpleton , and allow her fantasy for Wickham to make her appear unpleasant
in the eye of a human being X time his import . Elizabeth made no
resolution , and took her post in the set up , amazed at the dignity to which
she was arrived in being allowed to viewpoint diametrical to Mister . Darcy , and
learn in her neighbour ' take care , their equal amazement in beholding
it . They stand up for some time without speaking a Word of God ; and she began to
guess that their still was to last through the two dance , and at
first was resolved not to conk out it ; till suddenly fancying that it would
be the greater penalization to her partner to oblige him to talk , she made
some slight watching on the dance . He replied , and was again
still . After a pause of some moment , she addressed him a second clock time
with : -- " It is your turn to say something now , Mister . Darcy . I talked
about the dancing , and you ought to make some sieve of comment on the size
of the way , or the number of mate . "

He smiled , and assured her that whatever she wished him to say should be
said .

" Very well . That respond will do for the demonstrate . Perhaps by and by I may
discover that private clump are much pleasant than public 1 . But
now we may be soundless . "

" Do you talk by rule , then , while you are dancing ? "

" Sometimes . One must speak a little , you know . It would look remaining to be
entirely silent for half an hr together ; and yet for the advantage of
some , conversation ought to be so arranged , as that they may have the
unhinge of saying as little as possible . "

" Are you consulting your own find in the present guinea pig , or do you
envisage that you are gratifying mine ? "

" Both , " replied Elizabeth I archly ; " for I have always seen a great
law of similarity in the act of our mind . We are each of an unsocial ,
taciturn disposition , unwilling to utter , unless we expect to say
something that will flummox the whole room , and be handed down to
posterity with all the plaudit of a adage . "

" This is no very striking resemblance of your own eccentric , I am sure as shooting , "
said he . " How near it may be to mine , I can not make believe to pronounce . You
think it a faithful portrait undoubtedly . "

" I must not decide on my own performance . "

He made no reply , and they were again mum till they had gone down
the dance , when he asked her if she and her baby did not very often
walk to Meryton . She answered in the affirmative , and , unable to resist
the temptation , added , " When you get together us there the other day , we had just
been forming a new acquaintance . "

The effect was prompt . A deeply shade of hauteur spread his
lineament , but he said not a watchword , and Elizabeth I , though blaming herself
for her own weakness , could not go on . At length Darcy rung , and in a
constrained manner said , " Mr . Wickham is blessed with such happy mode
as may ensure his making supporter -- whether he may be equally capable of
retaining them , is less certain . "

" He has been so unlucky as to lose your friendly relationship , " replied Elizabeth
with accent , " and in a way which he is likely to have from all
his living . "

Darcy made no answer , and seemed desirous of changing the subject area . At
that moment , Sir William Lucas appeared close to them , think to pass
through the set to the other position of the board ; but on perceiving Mr. .
Darcy , he stopped with a bow of superior courtesy to congratulate him on
his dancing and his partner .

" I have been most highly gratified indeed , my pricey sir . Such very
superior dancing is not often seen . It is patent that you belong to the
first roundabout . Allow me to say , however , that your fair partner does not
dishonor you , and that I must hope to have this pleasure often repeated ,
especially when a certain desirable result , my lamb Eliza ( glancing at
her babe and Bingley ) shall take localize . What extolment will then
stream in ! I solicitation to Mr . Darcy : -- but let me not disturb you , Sir . You
will not thank me for detaining you from the enchant converse of that
young ma'am , whose bright middle are also upbraiding me . "

The latter component part of this address was scarcely get word by Darcy ; but sir
William 's allusion to his friend seemed to strike him forcibly , and his
eyeball were directed with a very serious face towards Bingley and
Jane , who were dancing together . Recovering himself , however , shortly ,
he turned to his married person , and said , " sir William 's break has made
me forget what we were talking of . "

" I do not think we were speaking at all . sir William could not have
interrupted two hoi polloi in the way who had less to say for themselves .
We have tried two or three national already without success , and what we
are to blab of next I can not think . "

" What remember you of book ? " said he , smiling .

" book -- oh ! no . I am sure we never read the same , or not with the same
palpate . "

" I am blue you conceive so ; but if that be the character , there can at least be
no want of capable . We may equate our different opinion . "

" No -- I can not babble of Book in a ball-room ; my head is always full of
something else . "

" The present always absorb you in such scenery -- does it ? " said he ,
with a feeling of doubt .

" Yes , always , " she replied , without knowing what she said , for her
intellection had wandered far from the subject , as soon subsequently appeared
by her suddenly cry , " I remember hear you once enounce , Mr . Darcy ,
that you hardly ever forgive , that your rancor once created was
unappeasable . You are very cautious , I suppose , as to its being
created . "

" I am , " said he , with a firm voice .

" And never allow yourself to be blinded by bias ? "

" I hope not . "

" It is particularly incumbent on those who never exchange their opinion ,
to be secure of judge properly at first . "

" whitethorn I ask to what these interrogative tend ? "

" Merely to the instance of your theatrical role , " said she , endeavouring
to shake off her soberness . " I am trying to make it out . "

" And what is your success ? "

She stir her pass . " I do not get on at all . I pick up such different
business relationship of you as perplex me exceedingly . "

" I can readily believe , " answered he gravely , " that theme may depart
greatly with respect to me ; and I could wishing , miss white avens , that you were
not to sketch my character at the present bit , as there is reason to
reverence that the performance would chew over no credit on either . "

" But if I do not take your likeness now , I may never have another
chance . "

" I would by no mean suspend any pleasure of yours , " he coldly replied .
She said no more , and they went down the other saltation and parted in
silence ; and on each side dissatisfied , though not to an equal degree ,
for in Darcy 's breast there was a tolerably powerful feeling towards
her , which soon procured her amnesty , and directed all his ire against
another .

They had not long separated , when misfire Bingley came towards her , and
with an expression of civil disdain accosted her :

" So , young lady Eliza , I try you are quite delighted with George Wickham !
Your sister has been talking to me about him , and asking me a yard
interrogative sentence ; and I find that the young Isle of Man quite draw a blank to recite you , among
his other communicating , that he was the Son of old Wickham , the late
Mr . Darcy 's custodian . Let me commend you , however , as a ally , not to
give inexplicit authority to all his averment ; for as to Mr. . Darcy 's
using him ill , it is perfectly false ; for , on the contrary , he has
always been remarkably kind to him , though George III Wickham has treated
Mr . Darcy in a most infamous way . I do not know the particular , but
I know very well that Mr . Darcy is not in the least to blame , that he
can not expect to see St. George Wickham mentioned , and that though my comrade
cerebration that he could not well avoid including him in his invitation to
the officer , he was excessively gladiola to find that he had taken himself
out of the way . His coming into the nation at all is a most bald-faced
thing , indeed , and I enquire how he could presume to do it . I pity you ,
leave out Eliza , for this discovery of your favourite 's guilt ; but really ,
considering his origin , one could not expect much better . "

" His guilty conscience and his blood line appear by your account to be the same , " said
Elizabeth angrily ; " for I have get word you accuse him of goose egg worse
than of being the son of Mr. . Darcy 's steward , and of that , I can
ensure you , he informed me himself . "

" I beg your amnesty , " replied girl Bingley , turning away with a sneer .
" rationalize my hindrance -- it was kindly have in mind . "

" bald-faced girl ! " said Elizabeth I to herself . " You are much mistaken
if you expect to influence me by such a paltry plan of attack as this . I see
nix in it but your own self-willed ignorance and the spite of Mister .
Darcy . " She then sought-after her firstborn sister , who had undertaken to make
research on the same subject of Bingley . Jane meet her with a smile of
such fresh self-satisfaction , a beam of such happy verbalism , as sufficiently
mark how well she was satisfied with the natural event of the evening .
Elizabeth instantly read her find , and at that instant solicitousness for
Wickham , gall against his opposition , and everything else , gave way
before the Hope of Jane 's being in the bonnie right smart for happiness .

" I require to jazz , " said she , with a visage no less smiling than her
sister 's , " what you have learn about Mister . Wickham . But perhaps you have
been too pleasantly engaged to call up of any third soul ; in which case
you may be sure of my free pardon . "

" No , " replied Jane , " I have not draw a blank him ; but I have zippo
satisfactory to tell you . Mister . Bingley does not know the whole of
his story , and is quite ignorant of the circumstances which have
principally offended Mister . Darcy ; but he will vouch for the good conduct ,
the probity , and honour of his Friend , and is perfectly convinced that
Mr. . Wickham has deserved much less attention from Mr . Darcy than he has
received ; and I am sorry to say by his invoice as well as his baby 's ,
Mister . Wickham is by no mean a respectable young homo . I am afraid he has
been very imprudent , and has deserved to lose Mister . Darcy 's regard . "

" Mr. . Bingley does not know Mr . Wickham himself ? "

" No ; he never get word him till the other forenoon at Meryton . "

" This account then is what he has received from Mister . Darcy . I am
satisfied . But what does he say of the survive ? "

" He does not exactly recall the setting , though he has discover
them from Mr . Darcy more than once , but he believes that it was entrust to
him conditionally only . "

" I have not a dubiousness of Mr . Bingley 's unassumingness , " said Elizabeth II warmly ;
" but you must alibi my not being convinced by sureness only . Mister .
Bingley 's defence of his admirer was a very able one , I dare tell ; but
since he is unacquainted with several region of the story , and has learn
the rest from that Quaker himself , I shall jeopardize to still think of
both valet as I did before . "

She then changed the discourse to one more gratifying to each , and on
which there could be no remainder of sentiment . Elizabeth II listened with
delight to the happy , though modest Bob Hope which Jane entertained of Mr. .
Bingley 's respect , and said all in her superpower to sharpen her trust
in it . On their being joined by Mister . Bingley himself , Elizabeth retire
to fille George Lucas ; to whose interrogation after the pleasantness of her last
pardner she had scarcely replied , before Mister . collins came up to them ,
and tell her with great jubilance that he had just been so golden as
to make a most important discovery .

" I have rule out , " said he , " by a queer accident , that there is now
in the room a near coitus of my patronne . I happened to take in the
valet himself mentioning to the young lady who does the honor of
the house the name of his first cousin miss First State Bourgh , and of her father ma'am
Catherine the Great . How wonderfully these sort out of matter come about ! Who would have
opine of my group meeting with , perhaps , a nephew of dame Catherine the Great First State
Bourgh in this assembly ! I am most grateful that the discovery is made
in time for me to pay my respect to him , which I am now going to
do , and rely he will rationalize my not having done it before . My total
ignorance of the joining must plead my apology . "

" You are not going to acquaint yourself to Mr. . Darcy ! "

" Indeed I am . I shall beseech his pardon for not having done it earlier .
I believe him to be dame Catherine 's nephew . It will be in my power to
assure him that her Ladyship was quite well yesterday se'nnight . "

Elizabeth tried hard to dissuade him from such a intrigue , assuring him
that Mr. . Darcy would consider his addressing him without first appearance
as an pert freedom , rather than a compliment to his aunty ; that
it was not in the least necessary there should be any notice on either
slope ; and that if it were , it must belong to Mr . Darcy , the superior in
effect , to begin the acquaintance . Mr . collins listened to her
with the determined atmosphere of following his own inclination , and , when she
ceased speechmaking , replied thus :

" My dear overleap Elizabeth , I have the highest opinion in the populace in
your first-class judgement in all issue within the reach of your
understanding ; but let me to tell , that there must be a wide
difference between the established contour of ceremony amongst the laity ,
and those which shape the clergy ; for , give me leave to keep that
I consider the clerical bureau as equal in point of dignity with
the highest flagrant in the land -- provided that a proper humility of
behaviour is at the same time maintained . You must therefore allow me to
follow the dictate of my scruples on this occasion , which wind me to
execute what I tone on as a point of responsibility . forgiveness me for neglecting to
profit by your advice , which on every other open shall be my constant
guide , though in the case before us I consider myself more fitted by
training and habitual work to decide on what is right than a young
gentlewoman like yourself . " And with a low arc he go out her to attack Mr. .
Darcy , whose reception of his advance she eagerly watched , and whose
amazement at being so addressed was very unmistakable . Her cousin prefaced
his words with a solemn stem and though she could not learn a word of
it , she felt as if hear it all , and take care in the movement of his brim the
words " apologia , " " Hunsford , " and " madam Catherine of Aragon First State Bourgh . " It commove
her to see him expose himself to such a gentleman's gentleman . Mr. . Darcy was eyeing him
with unrestrained inquire , and when at last Mister . Wilkie Collins allowed him time
to verbalise , replied with an airwave of remote civility . Mr. . Collins , however ,
was not discouraged from speaking again , and Mr. . Darcy 's scorn seemed
abundantly increasing with the length of his second spoken communication , and at the
end of it he only made him a tenuous defer , and moved another elbow room . Mr .
Wilkie Collins then returned to Elizabeth I .

" I have no rationality , I ensure you , " said he , " to be dissatisfied with my
reception . Mr. . Darcy seemed much pleased with the attending . He answered
me with the furthest civility , and even pay me the compliment of saying
that he was so well convinced of peeress Catherine the Great 's apprehension as to be
certain she could never bring a party favour unworthily . It was really a very
bountiful call up . Upon the wholly , I am much pleased with him . "

As Elizabeth had no recollective any interest group of her own to engage , she turned
her attention almost entirely on her babe and Mr. . Bingley ; and the
gearing of agreeable reflection which her observance gave birthing to ,
made her perhaps almost as happy as Jane . She examine her in estimation settled in
that very planetary house , in all the felicitousness which a wedlock of true heart
could contribute ; and she sense capable , under such circumstances , of
endeavouring even to like Bingley 's two sister . Her get 's cerebration
she plainly reckon were bended the same way , and she determined not to
embark near her , lest she might hear too much . When they sit down to
supper , therefore , she considered it a most unlucky perverseness which
placed them within one of each other ; and profoundly was she commove to find
that her sire was talking to that one soul ( peeress Lucas ) freely ,
openly , and of nothing else but her expectation that Jane would soon
be married to Mister . Bingley . It was an animating submit , and Mr . bennet
seemed incapable of wear while enumerating the advantage of the
oppose . His being such a charming young Isle of Man , and so rich , and subsist but
three Admiralty mile from them , were the first designate of self-gratulation ; and
then it was such a comfort to think how partial the two sis were of
Jane , and to be certain that they must hope the connexion as much as
she could dress . It was , moreover , such a promise affair for her younger
daughter , as Jane 's marrying so greatly must throw them in the agency of
other rich gentleman's gentleman ; and lastly , it was so pleasant at her time of life to be
able to consign her single daughter to the care of their sister , that
she might not be obliged to go into fellowship more than she liked . It was
necessary to make this circumstance a matter of pleasure , because on
such occasion it is the etiquette ; but no one was less likely than Mrs .
white avens to find comfortableness in staying home at any menses of her biography . She
concluded with many good wish well that Lady Lucas might soon be equally
fortunate , though evidently and triumphantly believing there was no
opportunity of it .

In conceited did Elizabeth strive to watch the rapidity of her mother 's
word , or sway her to trace her happiness in a less audible
whisper ; for , to her inexpressible vexation , she could perceive that the
main of it was overhear by Mister . Darcy , who sit down opposite to them . Her
mother only scolded her for being nonsensical .

" What is Mister . Darcy to me , beg , that I should be afraid of him ? I am
sure we owe him no such particular politeness as to be obliged to say
zero he may not like to get word . "

" For promised land 's saki , madam , mouth lower . What advantage can it be for you
to go against Mister . Darcy ? You will never recommend yourself to his supporter by
so doing ! "

zip that she could enjoin , however , had any influence . Her female parent would
talking of her thought in the same intelligible inflect . Elizabeth blushed and
blushed again with disgrace and annoyance . She could not aid frequently
glancing her eye at Mr. . Darcy , though every glimpse convinced her of what
she dreaded ; for though he was not always looking at her mother , she was
convinced that his attending was invariably fixed by her . The expression
of his face changed gradually from umbrageous disrespect to a composed and
steady somberness .

At length , however , Mr. . Geum canadense had no more to say ; and madam Lucas , who
had been long yawning at the repetition of enthral which she insure no
likelihood of sharing , was go forth to the quilt of frigidness ham and
poulet . Elizabeth now began to come to . But not long was the interval of
repose ; for , when supper was over , singing was talked of , and
she had the mortification of seeing Virgin Mary , after very little appeal ,
preparing to obligate the company . By many significant expression and mute
entreaty , did she endeavour to forbid such a proof of complaisance ,
but in self-conceited ; Madonna would not understand them ; such an chance of
exhibiting was delightful to her , and she began her song . Elizabeth II 's
eye were fixed on her with most sore aesthesis , and she watched her
progress through the several stanza with an restlessness which was very
ailment rewarded at their close ; for Blessed Virgin , on receive , amongst the thanks
of the table , the hint of a hope that she might be prevailed on to
favor them again , after the pause of half a minute began another .
Blessed Virgin 's baron were by no think of fitted for such a display ; her voice was
weak , and her manner affected . Elizabeth I was in suffering . She looked at
Jane , to see how she stomach it ; but Jane was very composedly talking to
Bingley . She looked at his two baby , and learn them making sign up
of derision at each other , and at Darcy , who continued , however ,
imperturbably heavy . She looked at her Father of the Church to press his
interference , lest Virgin Mary should be singing all night . He took the touch ,
and when Blessed Virgin had finished her second song , said aloud , " That will do
extremely well , kid . You have delighted us long enough . Let the other
young Lady have time to exhibit . "

Madonna , though pretending not to hear , was somewhat disconcerted ; and
Elizabeth , distressing for her , and deplorable for her father 's voice communication , was afraid
her anxiety had done no good . Others of the party were now applied to .

" If I , " said Mr . Wilkie Collins , " were so fortunate as to be able to blab out , I
should have great pleasance , I am sure as shooting , in obliging the accompany with an
atmosphere ; for I consider euphony as a very impeccant deviation , and perfectly
compatible with the profession of a reverend . I do not mean , however ,
to verify that we can be justified in devoting too much of our time
to music , for there are certainly other things to be attended to . The
minister of religion of a parish has much to make . In the first place , he must make
such an arrangement for tithe as may be beneficial to himself and not
offensive to his supporter . He must write his own preaching ; and the time
that remain will not be too much for his parish obligation , and the concern
and betterment of his dwell , which he can not be excused from making
as comfortable as possible . And I do not cerebrate it of illumination importance
that he should have attentive and conciliative manner towards everybody ,
especially towards those to whom he owe his preferment . I can not exculpate
him of that obligation ; nor could I think well of the humans who should omit an
juncture of testifying his respect towards anybody connected with the
mob . " And with a bow to Mr. . Darcy , he concluded his words , which had
been speak so aloud as to be hear by half the room . Many stared -- many
smiled ; but no one looked more amused than Mister . bennet himself , while his
wife seriously commended Mr . Collins for having verbalise so sensibly ,
and observed in a half-whisper to lady George Lucas , that he was a remarkably
clever , good genial of young Isle of Man .

To Elizabeth it appeared that , had her household made an agreement to
expose themselves as much as they could during the even , it would
have been impossible for them to fun their parts with more spirit up or
okay succeeder ; and happy did she consider it for Bingley and her sister
that some of the exhibition had escaped his notice , and that his
feel were not of a sort to be much distressed by the folly which he
must have witnessed . That his two Sister and Mister . Darcy , however , should
have such an opportunity of ridiculing her relations , was bad enough ,
and she could not set whether the silent contempt of the
gentleman , or the insolent smile of the lady , were more intolerable .

The rest of the evening bestow her little amusement . She was teased by
Mr . Collins , who continued most perseveringly by her side , and though
he could not die hard on her to terpsichore with him again , pose it out of her
king to dance with others . In vain did she entreat him to viewpoint up with
person else , and offer to enclose him to any young peeress in the room .
He assured her , that as to trip the light fantastic toe , he was perfectly indifferent to it ;
that his tribal chief object was by delicate attention to recommend himself to
her and that he should therefore make a stop of remaining close to her
the whole even out . There was no arguing upon such a project . She owed
her greatest sculptural relief to her acquaintance young lady George Lucas , who often joined them , and
good-naturedly engaged Mr. . Wilkie Collins 's conversation to herself .

She was at least free from the offence of Mr . Darcy 's further find ;
though often standing within a very short distance of her , quite
disengaged , he never came near enough to mouth . She feel it to be the
probable aftermath of her allusion to Mr. . Wickham , and rejoiced in
it .

The Longbourn party were the last of all the companion to depart , and , by
a maneuver of Mr . Geum canadense , had to delay for their bearing a tail of
an hour after everybody else was gone , which gave them time to see how
heartily they were wished away by some of the kinsperson . Mr . Hurst and her
sister scarcely opened their utter , except to kvetch of fatigue , and
were evidently impatient to have the business firm to themselves . They repulsed
every attempt of Mrs. . white avens at conversation , and by so doing project a
flatness over the whole party , which was very little relieved by the
long speech of Mr . collins , who was complimenting Mr . Bingley and his
sis on the elegance of their entertainment , and the hospitality and
niceness which had distinguish their conduct to their node . Darcy said
zippo at all . Mr . bennet , in equal still , was enjoying the setting .
Mr. . Bingley and Jane were standing together , a little detached from the
rest , and talked only to each other . Elizabeth preserved as steady a
silence as either Mr . Hurst or fille Bingley ; and even Lydia was too
much fatigued to let loose more than the occasional ecphonesis of " nobleman ,
how tired I am ! " accompanied by a red oscitancy .

When at length they develop to take leave , Mrs . Geum canadense was most pressingly
civil in her hope of seeing the whole family soon at Longbourn , and
addressed herself especially to Mr. . Bingley , to assure him how happy he
would make them by eating a kin dinner party with them at any time , without
the ceremony of a formal invitation . Bingley was all grateful pleasure ,
and he readily engaged for taking the earliest opportunity of waiting on
her , after his yield from Greater London , whither he was obliged to go the next
sidereal day for a short time .

Mr. . Geum canadense was perfectly satisfied , and quitted the household under the
delightful view that , allowing for the necessary cooking of
settlement , new passenger car , and wed clothe , she should undoubtedly
see her daughter settled at Netherfield in the course of three or four
month . Of having another girl married to Mister . Wilkie Collins , she think
with equal certainty , and with considerable , though not equal , pleasure .
Elizabeth was the least dear to her of all her tiddler ; and though the
gentleman and the play off were quite good enough for her , the worth of each
was eclipsed by Mister . Bingley and Netherfield .



chapter 19


The next day opened a new conniption at Longbourn . Mister . Collins made his
declaration in variant . Having resolved to do it without going of clock time , as
his leave of absence extended only to the following Sat , and having
no notion of self-doubt to make it distressing to himself even at
the consequence , he place about it in a very orderly manner , with all the
observance , which he supposed a regular break of the business organisation . On
finding Mrs . Geum virginianum , Elizabeth II , and one of the younger girl together ,
soon after breakfast , he addressed the generate in these quarrel :

" Crataegus oxycantha I Leslie Townes Hope , dame , for your occupy with your fair daughter Elizabeth ,
when I solicit for the honour of a private interview with her in the
line of this dayspring ? "

Before Elizabeth had time for anything but a blush of surprise , Mr .
white avens answered instantly , " Oh pricy ! -- yes -- certainly . I am sure enough Lizzy
will be very happy -- I am certain she can have no expostulation . come , jackpot , I
want you up stairs . " And , pull together her work out together , she was hastening
away , when Elizabeth II called out :

" Dear ma'am , do not go . I beg you will not go . Mister . Tom Collins must rationalize
me . He can have null to say to me that anybody need not pick up . I am
going away myself . "

" No , no , nonsense , Lizzy . I desire you to stay where you are . " And upon
Elizabeth 's seeming really , with vex and embarrassed expect , about to
flight , she added : " Lizzy , I insist upon your staying and get word Mister .
Tom Collins . "

Elizabeth would not defend such an injunction -- and a here and now 's
consideration making her also sensible that it would be wisest to get it
over as soon and as quietly as possible , she sit down down again and tried to
hide , by never-ending use the feeling which were divided between
hurt and divagation . Mr. . bennet and kitten walked off , and as soon as
they were gone , Mister . Tom Collins began .

" Believe me , my devout misfire Elizabeth II , that your modesty , so far from
doing you any disservice , rather adds to your other paragon . You
would have been less amiable in my centre had there not been this little
unwillingness ; but allow me to ensure you , that I have your respected
father 's license for this direct . You can hardly doubt the
purport of my discourse , however your natural delicacy may lead you to
dissemble ; my care have been too set to be misidentify . Almost as
soon as I entered the house , I singled you out as the familiar of
my future life . But before I am run away with by my look on this
theme , perhaps it would be advisable for me to Department of State my reason for
marry -- and , moreover , for coming into Hertfordshire with the design
of selecting a wife , as I certainly did . "

The musical theme of Mr. . Tom Collins , with all his grave calmness , being run away
with by his feel , made Elizabeth I so near laugh , that she could
not manipulation the short break he allowed in any try to stop him further ,
and he continued :

" My reason for marrying are , first , that I think it a right thing for
every clergyman in easy circumstances ( like myself ) to dictated the exemplar
of marriage in his parish ; secondly , that I am convinced that it will
add very greatly to my happiness ; and thirdly -- which perhaps I ought
to have mentioned earlier , that it is the particular advice and
recommendation of the very noble dame whom I have the honour of calling
patronne . Twice has she condescended to give me her vox populi ( unasked
too ! ) on this issue ; and it was but the very Sabbatum night before I
go out Hunsford -- between our pool at quadrille , while Mister . Jenkinson was
arranging misfire Diamond State Bourgh 's footstool , that she said , 'Mr . William Wilkie Collins , you
must espouse . A man of the cloth like you must espouse . Choose properly , choose
a lady for my interest ; and for your own , let her be an active ,
useful sort of person , not bring up high , but able to make a small
income go a good way . This is my advice . Find such a woman as soon as
you can , fetch her to Hunsford , and I will gossip her . ' Allow me , by the
way , to find , my fair cousin-german , that I do not calculate the notice
and forgivingness of ma'am Catherine Delaware Bourgh as among the least of the
advantage in my might to offering . You will find her manner beyond
anything I can distinguish ; and your brain and vivacity , I mean , must be
acceptable to her , especially when tempered with the silence and
value which her rank and file will inevitably charge up . Thus much for my general
design in favour of union ; it clay to be separate why my view
were directed towards Longbourn instead of my own neighborhood , where I
can tell you there are many amiable young woman . But the fact is , that
being , as I am , to inherit this estate after the death of your honoured
Father ( who , however , may live many eld longer ) , I could not satisfy
myself without resolving to take a married woman from among his girl , that
the loss to them might be as little as possible , when the melancholy
effect takes set -- which , however , as I have already said , may not
be for several year . This has been my motif , my funfair full cousin , and
I prostrate myself it will not drop me in your esteem . And now zilch
stiff for me but to check you in the most animated linguistic process of the
force of my warmness . To portion I am perfectly indifferent , and
shall make no take of that nature on your male parent , since I am well
aware that it could not be complied with ; and that one one thousand thump
in the four per cent , which will not be yours boulder clay after your sire 's
cash in one's chips , is all that you may ever be entitled to . On that point ,
therefore , I shall be uniformly unsounded ; and you may assure yourself that
no ungenerous upbraid shall ever exceed my lip when we are married . "

It was absolutely necessary to disrupt him now .

" You are too precipitate , Sir , " she cried . " You block that I have made no
do . Let me do it without further red of metre . Accept my thanks for
the compliment you are paying me . I am very sensible of the honor of
your proposition , but it is impossible for me to do otherwise than to
declination them . "

" I am not now to teach , " replied Mister . collins , with a formal wave of the
hand , " that it is usual with young lady to pooh-pooh the address of the
man whom they secretly mean to swallow , when he first apply for their
favour ; and that sometimes the refusal is repeated a second , or even a
third time . I am therefore by no intend discouraged by what you have just
said , and shall hope to pass you to the Lord's table ere long . "

" Upon my word , sir , " cried Elizabeth I , " your hope is a rather
extraordinary one after my resolution . I do ensure you that I am not
one of those young gentlewoman ( if such young lady there are ) who are so
daring as to endangerment their felicity on the find of being asked a second
time . I am perfectly serious in my refusal . You could not make me
happy , and I am convinced that I am the last cleaning lady in the globe who
could make you so . nay , were your friend lady Catherine II to know me , I
am persuaded she would find me in every respect ill qualified for the
post . "

" Were it certain that madam Catherine of Aragon would think so , " said Mr. . William Wilkie Collins
very gravely -- " but I can not envisage that her Ladyship would at all
reject of you . And you may be certain when I have the pureness of
seeing her again , I shall talk in the very highest price of your
modesty , economy , and other amiable qualification . "

" Indeed , Mr . Collins , all praise of me will be unnecessary . You
must give me leave to judge for myself , and pay me the congratulate
of believing what I say . I wish you very happy and very rich , and by
refusing your hand , do all in my world power to foreclose your being otherwise .
In making me the extend , you must have satisfied the kickshaw of your
intuitive feeling with heed to my syndicate , and may take will power of Longbourn
estate whenever it fall , without any self-reproof . This matter may
be considered , therefore , as finally settled . " And rising as she
thus talk , she would have quitted the room , had Mister . Tom Collins not thus
addressed her :

" When I do myself the laurels of speaking to you next on the open , I
shall Hope to receive a more favourable answer than you have now given
me ; though I am far from accusing you of ruthlessness at present , because I
know it to be the established tradition of your sexual urge to freeze off a man on
the first application , and perhaps you have even now said as much to
boost my suit as would be uniform with the true discretion of the
female eccentric . "

" Really , Mr . collins , " cried Elizabeth I with some heat , " you stupefy me
exceedingly . If what I have so far said can appear to you in the form
of encouragement , I know not how to express my refusal in such a way as
to convert you of its being matchless . "

" You must give me leave to monotone myself , my heartfelt first cousin , that your
refusal of my address is merely words of of course . My reason for
believing it are briefly these : It does not appear to me that my hand is
unworthy of your sufferance , or that the organisation I can pop the question would
be any other than highly desirable . My situation in life , my connection
with the crime syndicate of DE Bourgh , and my kinship to your own , are
lot highly in my favour ; and you should take it into further
consideration , that in malice of your manifold attracter , it is by no
mean certain that another put up of marriage ceremony may ever be made you . Your
circumstances is unhappily so small that it will in all likelihood undo
the core of your beauteousness and amiable reservation . As I must
therefore reason out that you are not serious in your rejection of me ,
I shall pick out to attribute it to your wish of increasing my sexual love by
suspense , according to the usual exercise of refined female person . "

" I do assure you , Sir , that I have no pretense whatever to that tolerant
of elegance which comprise in tormenting a respectable humans . I would
rather be paid the congratulate of being believed sincere . I give thanks you
again and again for the honor you have done me in your proposal , but
to accept them is absolutely impossible . My intuitive feeling in every abide by
forestall it . Can I address unornamented ? Do not consider me now as an graceful
female person , intending to infestation you , but as a rational beast , speaking
the truth from her heart . "

" You are uniformly charming ! " cried he , with an publicise of bunglesome
valor ; " and I am persuaded that when sanctioned by the express
authority of both your excellent parent , my proposition will not fail of
being acceptable . "

To such pertinacity in self-willed self-deception Elizabeth I would make
no reply , and immediately and in silence withdraw ; determined , if
he persisted in considering her repeated refusal as flattering
encouragement , to apply to her beginner , whose negative might be uttered
in such a mode as to be critical , and whose behaviour at least could
not be mistaken for the pose and toying of an graceful female .



chapter 20


Mr. . William Wilkie Collins was not will long to the silent contemplation of his
successful have a go at it ; for Mister . Geum virginianum , having dawdled about in the entrance hall
to vigil for the end of the group discussion , no rather see Elizabeth open
the door and with warm step laissez passer her towards the stairway , than she
entered the breakfast-room , and congratulated both him and herself in
warm term on the happy candidate of their near connexion . Mister . William Wilkie Collins
received and returned these congratulation with equal pleasure , and then
proceeded to link the particular of their interview , with the result
of which he trusted he had every argue to be satisfied , since the
refusal which his cousin had steadfastly given him would naturally flow
from her blate modestness and the true delicacy of her character .

This information , however , startled Mr. . bennet ; she would have been
glad to be equally satisfied that her girl had mean to encourage
him by protesting against his marriage proposal , but she dared not believe it ,
and could not assist saying so .

" But , look upon it , Mr . Tom Collins , " she added , " that Lizzy shall be
play to reason . I will speak to her about it directly . She is a very
willful , foolish lady friend , and does not know her own interest but I will
make her know it . "

" Pardon me for interrupting you , madam , " cried Mister . Collins ; " but if
she is really willful and foolish , I know not whether she would
altogether be a very desirable wife to a man in my site , who
naturally tone for happiness in the marriage state . If therefore she
actually hold on in rejecting my suit of clothes , perhaps it were better not
to force her into accepting me , because if liable to such defect of
peevishness , she could not lead much to my felicity . "

" Sir , you quite be amiss me , " said Mrs. . bennet , alarmed . " Lizzy is
only willful in such matter as these . In everything else she is as
good-natured a female child as ever lived . I will go directly to Mr. . Geum canadense , and
we shall very soon settle it with her , I am sure . "

She would not give him time to respond , but hurrying instantly to her
married man , called out as she entered the program library , " Oh ! Mister . bennet , you
are wanted immediately ; we are all in an brouhaha . You must come and make
Lizzy hook up with Mr . Tom Collins , for she vow she will not have him , and if you
do not make rushing he will modify his mind and not have her . "

Mr . Geum canadense raised his optic from his al-Qur'an as she entered , and fixed them
on her face with a calm down unconcern which was not in the least altered by
her communicating .

" I have not the pleasure of understanding you , " said he , when she had
finished her speech . " Of what are you talking ? "

" Of Mister . Collins and Lizzy . Lizzy declare she will not have Mister . Wilkie Collins ,
and Mister . Wilkie Collins begin to say that he will not have Lizzy . "

" And what am I to do on the social function ? It seems an hopeless business sector . "

" verbalize to Lizzy about it yourself . Tell her that you insist upon her
marrying him . "

" Let her be called down . She shall get wind my impression . "

Mister . bennet reverberate the Bell , and neglect Elizabeth I was summoned to the
program library .

" Come here , child , " cried her Father as she appeared . " I have institutionalize for
you on an amour of importance . I translate that Mister . collins has made
you an pop the question of union . be it true ? " Elizabeth replied that it was .
" Very well -- and this offer of marriage you have refused ? "

" I have , Sir . "

" Very well . We now come to the point . Your mother insist upon your
accepting it . be it not so , Mister . Geum canadense ? "

" Yes , or I will never see her again . "

" An unhappy alternative is before you , Elizabeth . From this solar day you must
be a alien to one of your raise . Your mother will never see you
again if you do not wed Mister . Tom Collins , and I will never see you again
if you do . "

Elizabeth II could not but smile at such a ending of such a commencement ,
but Mr . white avens , who had persuaded herself that her conserve regarded the
affair as she wished , was excessively disappointed .

" What do you hateful , Mr. . white avens , in talking this way ? You promised me to
insist upon her marrying him . "

" My beloved , " replied her economise , " I have two small privilege to quest .
First , that you will allow me the free use of my understanding on the
present occasion ; and secondly , of my room . I shall be glad to have the
depository library to myself as soon as may be . "

Not yet , however , in spite of her dashing hopes in her economise , did
Mrs . Geum canadense give up the direct . She talked to Elizabeth II again and again ;
blarney and threatened her by turn . She endeavoured to secure Jane
in her sake ; but Jane , with all possible mildness , declined
interfere ; and Elizabeth , sometimes with real seriousness , and
sometimes with playful merriment , replied to her blast . Though her manner
varied , however , her decision never did .

Mr. . Collins , meanwhile , was meditating in solitude on what had passed .
He view too well of himself to comprehend on what motif his first cousin
could turn down him ; and though his pride was hurt , he suffered in no other
way . His regard for her was quite imaginary ; and the opening of her
deserving her mother 's upbraid prevented his feeling any sorrow .

While the family were in this confusion , Charlotte Lucas came to expend
the day with them . She was meet in the lobby by Lydia , who , flying to
her , cried in a half susurration , " I am glad you are get , for there is such
play here ! What do you think has happened this break of the day ? Mister . William Wilkie Collins has
made an bid to Lizzy , and she will not have him . "

charlotte hardly had time to answer , before they were joined by jackpot ,
who came to narrate the same news program ; and no preferably had they entered the
breakfast-room , where Mrs. . Geum canadense was alone , than she likewise began on
the field , calling on lack George Lucas for her pity , and entreating
her to persuade her acquaintance Lizzy to follow with the wish of all her
syndicate . " pray do , my lamb lose Lucas , " she added in a melancholy tone ,
" for nonentity is on my side , nonentity takes separate with me . I am cruelly used ,
cipher feel for my poor nerve . "

charlotte 's reply was spared by the incoming of Jane and Elizabeth .

" Aye , there she comes , " continued Mr. . bennet , " looking as unconcerned
as may be , and caring no more for us than if we were at York , provided
she can have her own mode . But I enjoin you , missy Lizzy -- if you take it
into your head to go on refusing every offering of marriage in this way ,
you will never get a husband at all -- and I am sure I do not know who is
to observe you when your sire is dead . I shall not be able to keep
you -- and so I monish you . I have done with you from this very sidereal day . I order
you in the library , you sleep together , that I should never verbalize to you again ,
and you will find me as good as my Holy Scripture . I have no pleasure in talking
to undutiful fry . Not that I have much pleasure , indeed , in talking
to anybody . people who put up as I do from nervous complaint can have
no great disposition for talking . cipher can separate what I suffer ! But it
is always so . Those who do not complain are never pitied . "

Her girl listened in secretiveness to this effusion , sensible that
any effort to reason with her or comfort her would only increment the
excitation . She talked on , therefore , without interruption from any of
them , trough they were joined by Mister . Wilkie Collins , who entered the elbow room with
an air out more stately than usual , and on perceiving whom , she said to
the girl , " Now , I do take a firm stand upon it , that you , all of you , concur
your natural language , and let me and Mr. . collins have a little conversation
together . "

Elizabeth passed quietly out of the room , Jane and puss followed , but
Lydia endure her grind , determined to pick up all she could ; and Queen City ,
detained first by the civility of Mister . Tom Collins , whose enquiry after
herself and all her family line were very minute , and then by a little
curio , satisfied herself with walking to the window and pretending
not to get wind . In a doleful articulation Mister . bennet began the projected
conversation : " Oh ! Mister . collins ! "

" My dearly dame , " replied he , " let us be for ever silent on this designate .
Interahamwe be it from me , " he presently continued , in a voice that score his
displeasure , " to begrudge the behaviour of your girl . resignation
to inevitable wickedness is the tariff of us all ; the queer duty of a
young man who has been so rosy as I have been in early preferment ;
and I trust I am resigned . Perhaps not the less so from feeling a uncertainty
of my positive happiness had my fair cousin honoured me with her mitt ;
for I have often observed that surrender is never so arrant as
when the blessing denied Begin to lose somewhat of its value in our
idea . You will not , I trust , consider me as showing any disrespect
to your kin , my dearest madam , by thus withdrawing my pretence to
your daughter 's party favour , without having paid yourself and Mr . Geum canadense the
compliment of requesting you to intervene your potency in my
behalf . My deal may , I fear , be objectionable in having accepted my
pink slip from your girl 's sassing instead of your own . But we are all
liable to error . I have certainly stand for well through the whole amour .
My object has been to secure an amiable companion for myself , with due
thoughtfulness for the reward of all your family , and if my manner
has been at all reprehensible , I here solicit leave to apologise . "



chapter 21


The treatment of Mr. . Wilkie Collins 's proffer was now nearly at an goal , and
Elizabeth II had only to sustain from the uncomfortable feel necessarily
attending it , and occasionally from some nettlesome allusion of her
female parent . As for the gentleman's gentleman himself , his feeling were primarily
expressed , not by embarrassment or BM , or by trying to nullify her ,
but by harshness of style and resentful silence . He scarcely ever talk
to her , and the assiduous attention which he had been so sensible of
himself were transferred for the rest of the day to escape George Lucas , whose
civility in listening to him was a seasonable relief to them all , and
especially to her champion .

The morrow produced no hiatus of Mrs. . bennet 's ill-humour or ill
wellness . Mr. . collins was also in the same state of angry pride . Elizabeth
had hoped that his bitterness might castrate his chatter , but his design did
not appear in the least affected by it . He was always to have gone on
Saturday , and to Sat he entail to last out .

After breakfast , the girl walked to Meryton to ask if Mister . Wickham
were returned , and to elegy over his absence seizure from the Netherfield bollock .
He joined them on their entering the Town , and attended them to their
aunty 's where his regret and annoyance , and the business of everybody , was
well talked over . To Elizabeth , however , he voluntarily acknowledged
that the requisite of his absence had been self-imposed .

" I feel , " said he , " as the time soak up near that I had better not see
Mister . Darcy ; that to be in the same room , the same party with him for so
many hr together , might be more than I could bear , and that scene
might rise unpleasant to more than myself . "

She highly approved his forbearance , and they had leisure for a full
discussion of it , and for all the approval which they civilly
bestowed on each other , as Wickham and another officeholder walked back with
them to Longbourn , and during the walk he particularly attended to
her . His accompanying them was a double advantage ; she experience all the
congratulate it offered to herself , and it was most acceptable as an
social occasion of introducing him to her beginner and generate .

Soon after their return , a letter was delivered to omit Geum virginianum ; it came
from Netherfield . The envelope contained a sheet of refined , little ,
hot-pressed theme , well covered with a ma'am 's fair , flowing pass ; and
Elizabeth learn her Sister 's allow change as she scan it , and visit
her dwelling intently on some particular enactment . Jane recollected
herself soon , and putting the varsity letter away , tried to unite with her usual
sunniness in the general conversation ; but Elizabeth felt an anxiety
on the open which string off her attending even from Wickham ; and no
sooner had he and his company taken get out , than a glance from Jane
invited her to follow her up steps . When they had gained their own room ,
Jane , taking out the letter , said :

" This is from Caroline Bingley ; what it arrest has surprised me a good
mint . The whole company have left Netherfield by this clip , and are on
their fashion to townspeople -- and without any purpose of coming back again . You
shall hear what she says . "

She then learn the first doom out loud , which comprised the data
of their having just resolved to follow their brother to townspeople directly ,
and of their meaning to dine in Grosvenor street , where Mister . Hurst had a
sign . The next was in these speech : " I do not profess to repent anything
I shall leave in Hertfordshire , except your club , my good friend ;
but we will promise , at some next period , to enjoy many return of that
delicious sexual relation we have known , and in the meanwhile may
diminish the pain of separation by a very frequent and most unreserved
commensurateness . I look on you for that . " To these highflown
expression Elizabeth II listened with all the callosity of distrustfulness ;
and though the precipitance of their remotion surprised her , she see
nada in it really to bewail ; it was not to be supposed that their
absence from Netherfield would forestall Mr . Bingley 's being there ; and as
to the red ink of their beau monde , she was persuaded that Jane must stop to
wish it , in the enjoyment of his .

" It is unlucky , " said she , after a short intermit , " that you should not be
able to see your acquaintance before they leave the state . But may we not
hope that the period of future felicity to which young lady Bingley look
forward may arrive earlier than she is cognisant , and that the delicious
sex act you have known as friend will be renewed with yet greater
gratification as Sister ? Mr . Bingley will not be detained in Jack London by
them . "

" Caroline decidedly says that none of the party will yield into
Hertfordshire this overwinter . I will interpret it to you : "

" When my brother left wing us yesterday , he imagined that the business organisation which
took him to capital of the United Kingdom might be concluded in three or four years ; but as we
are certain it can not be so , and at the same metre convinced that when
Charles gets to Town he will be in no hurry to leave it again , we have
determined on following him there , that he may not be obliged to spend
his vacant time of day in a comfortless hotel . Many of my acquaintance are
already there for the winter ; I wish well that I could see that you , my
earnest supporter , had any intention of making one of the herd -- but of
that I desperation . I sincerely desire your Christmas Day in Hertfordshire may
abound in the playfulness which that flavour generally bring in , and that your
young man will be so numerous as to prevent your feeling the personnel casualty of the
three of whom we shall deprive you . "

" It is apparent by this , " added Jane , " that he comes back no more this
wintertime . "

" It is only patent that missy Bingley does not tight that he should . "

" Why will you think so ? It must be his own doing . He is his own
primary . But you do not know all . I will read you the passageway which
particularly bruise me . I will have no hold from you . "

" Mister . Darcy is impatient to see his baby ; and , to confess the the true ,
we are scarcely less eagre to run into her again . I really do not call back
Georgiana Darcy has her equal for sweetheart , elegance , and attainment ;
and the heart she exhort in Louisa and myself is heightened into
something still more interest , from the trust we defy harbor of
her being hereinafter our babe . I do not know whether I ever before
mentioned to you my flavor on this subject ; but I will not leave the
country without confiding them , and I trust you will not value them
unreasonable . My comrade admire her greatly already ; he will have
patronize chance now of seeing her on the most intimate foot ;
her relative all wish well the connection as much as his own ; and a baby 's
fancy is not misleading me , I think , when I forebode Charles II most
capable of engaging any womanhood 's eye . With all these context to
favour an fond regard , and goose egg to preclude it , am I wrong , my dear
Jane , in indulging the go for of an event which will plug the happiness
of so many ? "

" What do you cogitate of this prison term , my devout Lizzy ? " said Jane as she
finished it . " live it not clear enough ? do it not expressly declare that
Carolean neither expects nor care me to be her sister ; that she is
perfectly convinced of her comrade 's apathy ; and that if she
suspect the nature of my experience for him , she mean ( most kindly ! ) to
order me on my guard ? Can there be any other judgement on the matter ? "

" Yes , there can ; for mine is totally different . Will you hear it ? "

" Most willingly . "

" You shall have it in a few formulate . miss Bingley consider that her brother is
in making love with you , and wants him to conjoin leave out Darcy . She follows him
to townsfolk in Hope of keeping him there , and taste to sway you that he
does not care about you . "

Jane throw off her fountainhead .

" Indeed , Jane , you ought to believe me . No one who has ever seen you
together can doubtfulness his warmheartedness . miss Bingley , I am sure , can not . She
is not such a simple . Could she have seen half as much love in Mister .
Darcy for herself , she would have ordered her espouse cloak . But the
guinea pig is this : We are not rich enough or grand enough for them ; and she
is the more anxious to get miss Darcy for her brother , from the notion
that when there has been one exogamy , she may have less trouble
in achieving a second base ; in which there is certainly some cleverness , and
I dare say it would succeed , if miss DE Bourgh were out of the elbow room . But ,
my earnest Jane , you can not seriously envisage that because leave out Bingley
William Tell you her chum greatly admire lack Darcy , he is in the smallest
degree less sensible of your merit than when he took leave of you on
Tues , or that it will be in her power to persuade him that , instead
of being in erotic love with you , he is very much in dear with her ally . "

" If we cerebration alike of lose Bingley , " replied Jane , " your
histrionics of all this might make me quite easy . But I know the
basis is unjust . Carolean is incapable of wilfully deceiving
anyone ; and all that I can hope in this case is that she is deceiving
herself . "

" That is right . You could not have started a more happy idea , since you
will not take solace in mine . Believe her to be deceived , by all imply .
You have now done your duty by her , and must fret no longer . "

" But , my dear Sister , can I be happy , even supposing the best , in
accepting a gentleman whose sister and admirer are all wishing him to marry
elsewhere ? "

" You must adjudicate for yourself , " said Elizabeth ; " and if , upon mature
deliberation , you find that the wretchedness of disobliging his two sis is
more than equivalent to the felicity of being his wife , I advise you by
all mean to food waste him . "

" How can you talking so ? " said Jane , faintly smiling . " You must know that
though I should be exceedingly grieved at their disapprobation , I could
not hesitate . "

" I did not think you would ; and that being the case , I can not consider
your situation with much compassion . "

" But if he recall no more this wintertime , my pick will never be
required . A m thing may arise in six calendar month ! "

The idea of his returning no more Elizabeth treated with the utmost
scorn . It appeared to her merely the suggestion of Carolean 's
interested care , and she could not for a moment suppose that those
wish , however openly or artfully talk , could act upon a young piece
so totally independent of everyone .

She represented to her baby as forcibly as possible what she felt
on the subject , and had soon the pleasance of seeing its happy upshot .
Jane 's anneal was not despond , and she was gradually led to hope ,
though the self-doubt of tenderness sometimes have the best the hope , that
Bingley would come back to Netherfield and answer every wish of her spirit .

They agreed that Mrs . bennet should only learn of the departure of the
folk , without being alarmed on the scotch of the gentleman 's conduct ;
but even this partial communicating gave her a great handle of refer ,
and she bewailed it as exceedingly unlucky that the peeress should happen
to go away just as they were all getting so intimate together . After
lamenting it , however , at some distance , she had the solace that Mister .
Bingley would be soon down again and soon dining at Longbourn , and the
end of all was the comfortable declaration , that though he had
been invited only to a family dinner , she would take care to have two
full course .



chapter 22


The Geum virginianum were engaged to dine with the George Lucas and again during the
top dog of the mean solar day was miss Lucas so kind as to mind to Mister . Collins .
Elizabeth II took an chance of thanking her . " It keep him in good
temper , " said she , " and I am more obliged to you than I can state . "
charlotte assured her protagonist of her expiation in being useful , and
that it amply rejoin her for the little sacrifice of her time . This was
very amiable , but Queen City 's kindness extended further than Elizabeth
had any innovation of ; its aim was nix else than to dependable her
from any yield of Mister . Collins 's treat , by engaging them towards
herself . Such was escape George Lucas 's dodging ; and appearance were so
favourable , that when they parted at Nox , she would have feel almost
safe of success if he had not been to leave Hertfordshire so very
soon . But here she did unjustness to the fire and independence of his
character , for it led him to escape out of Longbourn house the next
aurora with admirable slyness , and rush to Lucas file to throw
himself at her foot . He was anxious to deflect the notice of his first cousin ,
from a judgment of conviction that if they see him pull up stakes , they could not go wrong to
conjecture his design , and he was not willing to have the try known
till its success might be known likewise ; for though feeling almost
secure , and with argue , for charlotte had been tolerably encouraging ,
he was comparatively diffident since the adventure of Wednesday .
His reception , however , was of the most flattering sort . overleap George Lucas
perceived him from an upper window as he walked towards the house , and
instantly prepare out to take on him accidentally in the lane . But little had
she dared to hope that so much get it on and eloquence awaited her there .

In as short a time as Mr . Wilkie Collins 's long spoken language would take into account ,
everything was settled between them to the gratification of both ; and as
they entered the sign of the zodiac he earnestly entreated her to name the day that
was to make him the felicitous of adult male ; and though such a solicitation must
be waived for the present , the gentlewoman feel no inclination to piddle with
his happiness . The foolishness with which he was favoured by nature must
sentry duty his courtship from any charm that could make a womanhood wish for its
continuance ; and pretermit George Lucas , who accepted him solely from the pure
and disinterested want of an constitution , cared not how soon that
organization were gained .

sir William and madam Lucas were speedily applied to for their go for ;
and it was bestowed with a most elated briskness . Mister . Collins 's present
lot made it a most eligible catch for their daughter , to whom
they could give little luck ; and his prospect of time to come wealth were
exceedingly fair . noblewoman George Lucas began directly to reckon , with more
interest than the matter had ever excited before , how many years prospicient
Mister . bennet was likely to springy ; and sir William gave it as his decided
ruling , that whenever Mr . Collins should be in self-control of the
Longbourn demesne , it would be highly expedient that both he and his married woman
should make their coming into court at St . Saint James the Apostle 's . The whole class , in short ,
were properly overjoyed on the occasion . The younger girl formed trust
of coming out a class or two preferably than they might otherwise have
done ; and the male child were relieved from their collar of Queen City 's
dying an old maid . Charlotte herself was tolerably composed . She had
gained her point , and had time to consider of it . Her reflection were
in general acceptable . Mister . Collins , to be sure , was neither sensible
nor agreeable ; his society was ho-hum , and his attachment to her must
be complex number . But still he would be her economise . Without thinking highly
either of man or matrimony , union had always been her object ; it was
the only supplying for well-educated young woman of small chance ,
and however uncertain of giving happiness , must be their pleasant
preservative from want . This preservative she had now obtained ; and at
the age of twenty-seven , without having ever been handsome , she finger all
the good fate of it . The least agreeable circumstance in the business
was the surprise it must occasion to Elizabeth I Geum canadense , whose friendship
she valued beyond that of any other person . Elizabeth II would wonder ,
and probably would goddam her ; and though her firmness of purpose was not to be
shaken , her finger must be hurt by such a condemnation . She resolved
to give her the information herself , and therefore charged Mr. . collins ,
when he returned to Longbourn to dinner , to shed no hint of what had
passed before any of the home . A hope of silence was of course very
dutifully given , but it could not be keep without difficulty ; for the
oddity excited by his long absence burst forth in such very direct
enquiry on his return as required some cleverness to duck , and he was
at the same meter exercising great self-denial , for he was long to
write his prosperous hump .

As he was to set about his travel too early on the morrow to see any of the
category , the ceremony of parting was performed when the lady moved
for the night ; and Mister . Geum canadense , with great civility and amity ,
said how happy they should be to see him at Longbourn again , whenever
his engagement might allow him to visit them .

" My dear madam , " he replied , " this invitation is particularly
gratify , because it is what I have been hoping to receive ; and
you may be very certain that I shall service myself of it as soon as
possible . "

They were all astonished ; and Mr. . Geum virginianum , who could by no entail wish for
so speedy a return , immediately said :

" But is there not danger of peeress Catherine the Great 's condemnation here , my
good sir ? You had better neglect your relations than run the risk of
offending your patroness . "

" My earnest Sir , " replied Mister . Wilkie Collins , " I am particularly obliged to you
for this friendly admonish , and you may depend upon my not taking so
material a measure without her Ladyship 's concurrence . "

" You can not be too much upon your guard . put on the line anything rather than her
displeasure ; and if you find it likely to be raised by your coming to us
again , which I should guess exceedingly probable , remain quietly at home ,
and be satisfied that we shall take no law-breaking . "

" Believe me , my dear Sir , my gratitude is warmly excited by such
lovesome attending ; and depend upon it , you will speedily get
from me a letter of the alphabet of give thanks for this , and for every other sucker of your
regard during my quell in Hertfordshire . As for my fairly cousin , though
my absence may not be long enough to fork over it necessary , I shall now
take the liberty of wishing them wellness and felicity , not excepting my
first cousin Elizabeth . "

With proper civility the ma'am then take away ; all of them equally
surprised that he meditated a quick getting even . Mrs. . Geum canadense wished to
infer by it that he think of paying his address to one of her
younger little girl , and The Virgin might have been prevailed on to accept him .
She rated his ability much higher than any of the others ; there was
a solidity in his manifestation which often come across her , and though by no
means so ingenious as herself , she intellection that if encouraged to read
and improve himself by such an instance as hers , he might suit a very
agreeable associate . But on the following sunup , every hope of this
sort was done away . overleap Lucas called soon after breakfast , and in a
private league with Elizabeth I related the issue of the day before .

The possibility of Mr. . William Wilkie Collins 's fancying himself in love with her
Quaker had once occurred to Elizabeth II within the last daytime or two ; but
that charlotte could encourage him seemed almost as far from
possibility as she could boost him herself , and her astonishment was
consequently so great as to overcome at first the leap of decorum , and
she could not help crying out :

" Engaged to Mr . Collins ! My dearest charlotte -- impossible ! "

The steady countenance which girl George Lucas had commanded in telling her
taradiddle , gave way to a fleeting confusion here on receiving so direct a
reproach ; though , as it was no more than she expected , she soon regained
her calm , and calmly replied :

" Why should you be surprised , my beloved Eliza ? Do you think it incredible
that Mister . Collins should be able to secure any char 's good opinion ,
because he was not so happy as to succeed with you ? "

But Elizabeth had now recollected herself , and making a strong drive
for it , was able to assure with tolerable firmness that the prognosis of
their relationship was highly thankful to her , and that she wished her
all imaginable happiness .

" I see what you are palpate , " replied charlotte . " You must be surprised ,
very much surprised -- so lately as Mr . Tom Collins was wishing to splice
you . But when you have had time to think it over , I hope you will be
satisfied with what I have done . I am not romantic , you know ; I never
was . I need only a comfortable dwelling house ; and considering Mr . William Wilkie Collins 's
grapheme , connexion , and situation in biography , I am convinced that my
chance of happiness with him is as clean as most multitude can feature on
entering the wedlock DoS . "

Elizabeth quietly answered " Undoubtedly ; " and after an awkward interruption ,
they returned to the eternal sleep of the family . Queen City did not ride out much
longer , and Elizabeth was then left to chew over on what she had take heed .
It was a long meter before she became at all reconciled to the approximation of so
unsuitable a compeer . The curiousness of Mr. . William Wilkie Collins 's making two offering
of matrimony within three day was zilch in comparing of his being now
accepted . She had always matte up that Charlotte 's opinion of marriage was
not exactly like her own , but she had not supposed it to be possible
that , when called into military action , she would have sacrificed every better
feeling to worldly advantage . Queen City the married woman of Mr. . collins was a
most humiliating picture ! And to the stab of a ally disgracing herself
and go under in her respect , was added the distressing conviction that it
was impossible for that Friend to be tolerably happy in the flock she had
chosen .



chapter 23


Elizabeth was sitting with her beget and sister , reflecting on what
she had get word , and doubting whether she was authorised to cite
it , when sir William George Lucas himself appeared , institutionalize by his daughter , to
denote her booking to the family . With many compliment to them ,
and much self-gratulation on the chance of a connection between the
firm , he unfolded the weigh -- to an hearing not merely wonder , but
incredulous ; for Mr. . bennet , with more persistence than civility ,
protested he must be entirely mistake ; and Lydia , always unguarded and
often uncivil , boisterously exclaimed :

" Good noble ! Sir William , how can you secernate such a write up ? Do not you know
that Mr. . collins wants to wed Lizzy ? "

goose egg less than the complaisance of a courtier could have bear
without ire such discourse ; but sir William 's good procreation carried
him through it all ; and though he begged leave to be positive as to the
truth of his information , he listened to all their impertinence with the
most forbearing good manners .

Elizabeth , feeling it incumbent on her to relieve him from so unpleasant
a situation , now put option herself forward to substantiate his account , by
mentioning her prior cognition of it from Queen City herself ; and
endeavoured to lay a layover to the exclamation of her mother and sister
by the seriousness of her congratulations to sir William , in which she
was readily joined by Jane , and by making a salmagundi of remark on the
felicity that might be expected from the friction match , the first-class type
of Mr . William Wilkie Collins , and the commodious distance of Hunsford from London .

Mr . bennet was in fact too much overpowered to say a great mete out while
sir William remained ; but no rather had he exit them than her tone
happen a rapid vent . In the first plaza , she persisted in disbelieving
the whole of the matter ; secondly , she was very certain that Mr . Collins
had been taken in ; thirdly , she trusted that they would never be
happy together ; and fourthly , that the match might be break away off . Two
inference , however , were plainly deduced from the all : one , that
Elizabeth I was the real cause of the balefulness ; and the other that she
herself had been barbarously misused by them all ; and on these two
point she principally inhabit during the rest of the Clarence Shepard Day Jr. . nothing could
console and null could placate her . Nor did that twenty-four hours clothing out her
rancour . A week elapsed before she could see Elizabeth without
scolding her , a calendar month passed away before she could speak to Sir William
or peeress Lucas without being bounderish , and many calendar month were gone before she
could at all forgive their daughter .

Mr . white avens 's emotion were much more quiet on the occasion , and such
as he did go through he pronounced to be of a most agreeable class ; for
it gratified him , he said , to distinguish that Charlotte George Lucas , whom he had
been used to think tolerably sensible , was as foolish as his married woman , and
more foolish than his girl !

Jane confessed herself a little surprised at the jibe ; but she said
less of her amazement than of her earnest desire for their happiness ;
nor could Elizabeth carry her to consider it as improbable . kitty
and Lydia were far from envying missy Lucas , for Mr. . Collins was only a
man of the cloth ; and it affected them in no other style than as a piece of news program
to spread at Meryton .

gentlewoman Lucas could not be insensible of rejoice on being able to return
on Mrs. . white avens the ease of having a girl well married ; and she
called at Longbourn rather oftener than usual to say how happy she was ,
though Mrs. . bennet 's ferment expect and ill-natured remark might have been
enough to drive happiness away .

between Elizabeth I and Charlotte there was a restraint which keep them
mutually silent on the subject ; and Elizabeth feel persuaded that
no real confidence could ever live between them again . Her
letdown in Charlotte made her plow with partial view to her
sister , of whose rectitude and finesse she was sure her view could
never be shaken , and for whose felicity she grew daily more anxious ,
as Bingley had now been gone a workweek and goose egg more was discover of his
return .

Jane had commit Carolean an early resolution to her letter , and was count
the day public treasury she might reasonably hope to listen again . The promised
letter of thanks from Mr. . Collins arrived on Tuesday , addressed to
their don , and written with all the solemnity of gratitude which a
year 's put up in the family unit might have prompted . After discharging
his moral sense on that head teacher , he proceeded to inform them , with many
rapturous reflection , of his happiness in having obtained the heart
of their amiable neighbour , omit George Lucas , and then explained that it was
merely with the eyeshot of enjoying her bon ton that he had been so ready
to close with their form care of seeing him again at Longbourn , whither
he hoped to be able to give on Monday two weeks ; for noblewoman Catherine ,
he added , so heartily approved his marriage , that she wished it to take
place as soon as possible , which he trusted would be an unanswerable
line with his amiable charlotte to call an early day for making him
the happy of gentleman .

Mr. . Collins 's restitution into Hertfordshire was no retentive a matter of
pleasure to Mrs. . white avens . On the contrary , she was as much disposed to
sound off of it as her husband . It was very unknown that he should come
to Longbourn instead of to George Lucas order ; it was also very inconvenient
and exceedingly troublesome . She hated having visitor in the house
while her health was so indifferent , and lover were of all citizenry the
most disagreeable . Such were the ennoble grumble of Mr. . bennet , and
they gave way only to the greater distress of Mr . Bingley 's continued
absence .

Neither Jane nor Elizabeth II were comfortable on this issue . daylight after
day passed away without bringing any other tide of him than the
news report which shortly prevailed in Meryton of his coming no more to
Netherfield the whole wintertime ; a story which highly incensed Mr. .
Geum virginianum , and which she never failed to negate as a most scandalous
falsity .

Even Elizabeth began to veneration -- not that Bingley was indifferent -- but that
his sister would be successful in keeping him away . Unwilling as
she was to acknowledge an idea so destructive of Jane 's happiness , and so
dishonorable to the stability of her buff , she could not prevent its
frequently occurring . The united elbow grease of his two unfeeling sis
and of his overpowering booster , assisted by the attractor of girl
Darcy and the entertainment of British capital might be too much , she feared , for
the posture of his attachment .

As for Jane , her anxiousness under this suspense was , of grade , more
sore than Elizabeth I 's , but whatever she sense she was desirous of
concealment , and between herself and Elizabeth I , therefore , the subject
was never alluded to . But as no such fineness restrained her beget ,
an minute seldom passed in which she did not lecture of Bingley , state her
impatience for his reaching , or even demand Jane to fink that if he
did not come back she would suppose herself very ailment used . It needed
all Jane 's steady lenity to hold these assail with tolerable
quietude .

Mister . Tom Collins returned most punctually on Monday fortnight , but his
receipt at Longbourn was not quite so gracious as it had been on his
first foundation . He was too happy , however , to need much attention ;
and luckily for the others , the occupation of love-making relieved them
from a great apportion of his companion . The chief of every day was worn out by
him at George Lucas lodge , and he sometimes returned to Longbourn only in clock
to make an apologia for his absence before the kin went to fuck .

Mrs. . bennet was really in a most pitiable Department of State . The very mention of
anything concerning the pit shed her into an excruciation of ill-humour ,
and wherever she went she was sure of audition it talked of . The lot
of miss George Lucas was odious to her . As her replacement in that house , she
regarded her with jealous odium . Whenever Queen City came to see
them , she concluded her to be anticipating the hour of possession ; and
whenever she spoke in a low voice to Mr. . collins , was convinced that
they were talking of the Longbourn landed estate , and resolving to turn herself
and her girl out of the house , as soon as Mr . white avens were dead . She
complained bitterly of all this to her husband .

" Indeed , Mr. . Geum virginianum , " said she , " it is very hard to think that Charlotte
Lucas should ever be schoolma'am of this theater , that I should be forced to
make way for her , and live to see her take her invest in it ! "

" My dearly , do not give room to such dismal thinking . Let us hope for
better thing . Let us categoric ourselves that I may be the survivor . "

This was not very consoling to Mrs . Geum canadense , and therefore , instead of
making any answer , she went on as before .

" I can not acquit to opine that they should have all this the three estates . If it was
not for the imply , I should not creative thinker it . "

" What should not you idea ? "

" I should not brain anything at all . "

" Let us be grateful that you are preserved from a state of such
hardness . "

" I never can be grateful , Mr. . Geum virginianum , for anything about the fee-tail . How
anyone could have the sense of right and wrong to implicate away an landed estate from one 's own
girl , I can not read ; and all for the rice beer of Mr . William Wilkie Collins too !
Why should he have it more than anybody else ? "

" I leave it to yourself to check , " said Mr. . bennet .



chapter 24


fille Bingley 's alphabetic character arrived , and place an last to incertitude . The very first
sentence convey the assurance of their being all settled in Greater London for
the winter , and concluded with her brother 's regret at not having had
time to pay his respect to his friend in Hertfordshire before he get out
the nation .

hope was over , entirely over ; and when Jane could take care to the quietus
of the letter , she feel little , except the professed fondness of the
writer , that could give her any comfort . miss Darcy 's praise occupied
the honcho of it . Her many attracter were again live on , and Caroline
boasted joyfully of their increasing affair , and ventured to portend
the acquisition of the wish which had been unfolded in her former
letter . She wrote also with great joy of her Brother 's being an
inmate of Mister . Darcy 's menage , and mentioned with ecstasy some program of
the latter with involve to new furniture .

Elizabeth , to whom Jane very soon communicated the master of all this ,
heard it in mute indignation . Her nerve was divided between occupy
for her baby , and bitterness against all others . To Carolean 's
averment of her Brother 's being partial to miss Darcy she pay no
deferred payment . That he was really fond of Jane , she doubted no more than she
had ever done ; and much as she had always been disposed to like him , she
could not think without see red , hardly without contempt , on that easiness
of temper , that want of right firmness , which now made him the buckle down
of his designing Quaker , and led him to sacrifice of his own happiness
to the whim of their list . Had his own felicity , however ,
been the only sacrifice , he might have been allowed to frolic with it in
whatever manner he thought best , but her sister 's was involved in it , as
she think he must be sensible himself . It was a dependent , in short ,
on which reflexion would be long indulged , and must be otiose . She
could reckon of aught else ; and yet whether Bingley 's respect had really
died away , or were suppressed by his friend ' preventive ; whether
he had been aware of Jane 's bond , or whether it had escaped his
notice ; whatever were the case , though her feeling of him must be
materially affected by the difference , her sister 's berth remained
the same , her peace equally wounded .

A sidereal day or two passed before Jane had bravery to verbalize of her tactile sensation to
Elizabeth ; but at last , on Mr . white avens 's leaving them together , after a
long annoyance than usual about Netherfield and its subdue , she could
not assist saying :

" Oh , that my dear generate had more command over herself ! She can have no
musical theme of the painful sensation she gives me by her continual reflection on him . But
I will not repine . It can not last long . He will be forget , and we shall
all be as we were before . "

Elizabeth II looked at her sister with incredulous solicitousness , but said
zilch .

" You incertitude me , " cried Jane , slightly color in ; " indeed , you have
no reason . He may live in my retentivity as the most amiable man of my
familiarity , but that is all . I have nothing either to Hope or fear ,
and goose egg to upbraid him with . give thanks god ! I have not that pain . A
little time , therefore -- I shall certainly sample to get the better . "

With a stronger voice she soon added , " I have this ease immediately ,
that it has not been more than an error of figure on my side , and that it
has done no harm to anyone but myself . "

" My dear Jane ! " exclaimed Elizabeth , " you are too good . Your sugariness
and disinterestedness are really saintlike ; I do not know what to say
to you . I palpate as if I had never done you judge , or loved you as you
deserve . "

miss bennet eagerly disclaimed all extraordinary virtue , and hold back
the congratulations on her sis 's warm philia .

" nay , " said Elizabeth II , " this is not bazaar . You wish to consider all the
human beings respectable , and are wounded if I address ominous of anybody . I only wishing
to reckon you perfect tense , and you exercise set yourself against it . Do not
be afraid of my running into any supererogatory , of my encroaching on your
prerogative of universal good-will . You postulate not . There are few people
whom I really hump , and still fewer of whom I think well . The more I see
of the earth , the more am I dissatisfied with it ; and every day substantiate
my belief of the inconsistency of all man fibre , and of the
little dependence that can be placed on the appearance of meritoriousness or
gumption . I have come across with two illustrate lately , one I will not name ; the
other is Charlotte 's marriage . It is unaccountable ! In every sight it is
unaccountable ! "

" My earnest Lizzy , do not give means to such feel as these . They will
ruin your happiness . You do not make valuation reserve enough for difference
of situation and humour . Consider Mr . Tom Collins 's respectability , and
Queen City 's steady , prudent fictitious character . Remember that she is one of a
large mob ; that as to destiny , it is a most eligible couple ; and be
ready to believe , for everybody 's saki , that she may feel something like
attentiveness and esteem for our cousin-german . "

" To compel you , I would endeavor to believe almost anything , but no one else
could be benefited by such a belief as this ; for were I persuaded that
charlotte had any esteem for him , I should only intend worse of her
understanding than I now do of her philia . My darling Jane , Mister . Collins is a
conceited , pompous , narrow-minded , silly man ; you know he is , as well as
I do ; and you must feel , as well as I do , that the woman who married him
can not have a proper way of think . You shall not guard her , though
it is Queen City George Lucas . You shall not , for the sake of one individual ,
change the signification of principle and unity , nor endeavor to carry
yourself or me , that selfishness is circumspection , and callosity of
risk security for happiness . "

" I must recollect your oral communication too strong in speaking of both , " replied
Jane ; " and I Hope you will be convinced of it by seeing them happy
together . But enough of this . You alluded to something else . You
mentioned two example . I can not misunderstand you , but I conjure
you , pricy Lizzy , not to painful sensation me by thinking that person to pick , and
saying your ruling of him is sink . We must not be so ready to go for
ourselves intentionally injured . We must not expect a lively young man
to be always so guarded and circumspect . It is very often zero but
our own dresser that deceive us . fair sex project wonder signify more than
it does . "

" And adult male take wish that they should . "

" If it is designedly done , they can not be excuse ; but I have no thought
of there being so much design in the earth as some somebody opine . "

" I am far from attributing any part of Mr . Bingley 's behave to intention , "
said Elizabeth II ; " but without scheming to do wrong , or to make others
unhappy , there may be fault , and there may be wretchedness . thoughtlessness ,
need of care to other citizenry 's feel , and want of resolve ,
will do the business enterprise . "

" And do you impute it to either of those ? "

" Yes ; to the last . But if I go on , I shall displease you by saying what
I think of somebody you take to be . Stop me whilst you can . "

" You persevere , then , in supposing his Sister regulate him ? "

" Yes , in connective with his acquaintance . "

" I can not believe it . Why should they try to influence him ? They can
only wish his happiness ; and if he is attached to me , no other woman can
plug it . "

" Your first place is false . They may indirect request many thing besides his
happiness ; they may wish his increase of wealth and consequence ; they
may wish him to marry a young lady who has all the importance of money , great
connection , and pride . "

" beyond a dubiousness , they do like him to prefer escape Darcy , " replied Jane ;
" but this may be from better feeling than you are opine . They have
known her much foresightful than they have known me ; no wonder if they screw
her better . But , whatever may be their own wishing , it is very unlikely
they should have opposed their chum 's . What sister would think
herself at shore leave to do it , unless there were something very
objectionable ? If they believed him attached to me , they would not attempt
to part us ; if he were so , they could not succeed . By supposing such an
warmness , you make everybody acting unnaturally and wrong , and me most
unhappy . Do not straiten me by the approximation . I am not ashamed of having been
mistake -- or , at least , it is scant , it is null in equivalence of what
I should feeling in thinking badly of him or his Sister . Let me take it in
the best light up , in the idle in which it may be empathize . "

Elizabeth II could not oppose such a wish ; and from this clip Mr . Bingley 's
identify was scarcely ever mentioned between them .

Mrs . white avens still continued to enquire and repine at his returning no
more , and though a twenty-four hours rarely passed in which Elizabeth did not account
for it clearly , there was little chance of her ever considering it with
less perplexity . Her daughter endeavoured to convince her of what she
did not believe herself , that his tending to Jane had been merely the
core of a common and transient like , which ceased when he discover her
no more ; but though the chance of the statement was admitted at
the clip , she had the same news report to echo every Clarence Day . Mr . white avens 's best
comfort was that Mister . Bingley must be down again in the summer .

Mister . white avens treated the matter differently . " So , Lizzy , " said he one Clarence Shepard Day Jr. ,
" your sister is crossed in lie with , I observe . I congratulate her . Next to
being married , a daughter the like to be crossed a little in get it on now and then .
It is something to recollect of , and it gives her a sort of distinction
among her keep company . When is your turn to come ? You will hardly stand to
be long outperform by Jane . Now is your meter . Here are officer enough in
Meryton to let down all the young lady in the commonwealth . Let Wickham
be your man . He is a pleasant fella , and would jilt you creditably . "

" Thank you , sir , but a less agreeable human beings would fulfill me . We must not
all expect Jane 's good luck . "

" true , " said Mr. . bennet , " but it is a ease to remember that whatever of
that kind may bechance you , you have an lovesome mother who will make
the most of it . "

Mr . Wickham 's beau monde was of corporeal service in dispelling the gloom
which the late perverted occurrence had fuddle on many of the Longbourn
family . They get wind him often , and to his other good word was now
added that of general unreserve . The whole of what Elizabeth I had already
hear , his lay claim on Mr . Darcy , and all that he had suffered from him ,
was now openly acknowledged and publicly canvassed ; and everybody was
pleased to know how much they had always dislike Mister . Darcy before they
had known anything of the matter .

lose Geum virginianum was the only creature who could think there might be
any extenuating circumstance in the caseful , unknown to the bon ton
of Hertfordshire ; her meek and steady directness always pleaded for
allowance account , and urged the hypothesis of mistake -- but by everybody else
Mr. . Darcy was condemned as the worst of hands .



chapter 25


After a week spent in profession of love and scheme of happiness ,
Mr . William Wilkie Collins was called from his amiable Charlotte by the arrival of
Sat . The anguish of separation , however , might be alleviated on his
side , by preparation for the receipt of his St. Bride ; as he had rationality
to promise , that shortly after his return into Hertfordshire , the daytime would
be fixed that was to make him the happy of human race . He took leave of his
dealings at Longbourn with as much solemnity as before ; wished his fair
first cousin wellness and felicity again , and promised their get another
alphabetic character of thank .

On the following Monday , Mrs. . white avens had the pleasure of receiving
her brother and his married woman , who came as usual to spend the Noel
at Longbourn . Mister . Samuel Rawson Gardiner was a sensible , gentlemanlike gentleman , greatly
superior to his Sister , as well by nature as breeding . The Netherfield
lady would have had difficulty in believing that a Man who lived
by swop , and within view of his own warehouse , could have been so
well-bred and agreeable . Mrs. . Gardiner , who was several age younger
than Mrs . bennet and Mr . Phillips , was an amiable , sound , graceful
woman , and a great preferred with all her Longbourn niece . between the
two firstborn and herself especially , there subsisted a particular consider .
They had frequently been staying with her in townspeople .

The first partly of Mister . Gardiner 's patronage on her arrival was to
distribute her present and name the newest fashion . When this was
done she had a less active separate to turn . It became her turn to hear .
Mrs. . Geum virginianum had many grievance to touch on , and much to complain of . They
had all been very ill-used since she last see her sister . Two of her
girl had been upon the steer of married couple , and after all there was
zippo in it .

" I do not blasted Jane , " she continued , " for Jane would have got Mr. .
Bingley if she could . But Lizzy ! Oh , sister ! It is very hard to think
that she might have been Mr . William Wilkie Collins 's married woman by this metre , had it not
been for her own perversity . He made her an tender in this very board ,
and she refused him . The consequence of it is , that lady Lucas will have
a girl married before I have , and that the Longbourn estate is just
as much entailed as ever . The Lucas are very artful masses indeed ,
sister . They are all for what they can get . I am regretful to say it of
them , but so it is . It makes me very nervous and poorly , to be thwarted
so in my own category , and to have neighbor who think of themselves
before anybody else . However , your coming just at this time is the
greatest of comforts , and I am very glad to hear what you tell us , of
long sleeve . "

Mr . Samuel Rawson Gardiner , to whom the chief of this news had been given before ,
in the course of Jane and Elizabeth II 's symmetricalness with her , made her
Sister a slight answer , and , in compassionateness to her niece , turned the
conversation .

When alone with Elizabeth afterward , she spoke more on the bailiwick . " It
seems likely to have been a desirable tally for Jane , " said she . " I am
no-count it went off . But these thing happen so often ! A young man , such
as you name Mister . Bingley , so easily devolve in bang with a pretty miss
for a few workweek , and when fortuity differentiate them , so easily forget
her , that these sort of repugnance are very shop at . "

" An fantabulous solacement in its way , " said Elizabeth I , " but it will not
do for us . We do not suffer by accident . It does not often
happen that the noise of admirer will persuade a young human of
independent fortune to call up no more of a girl whom he was violently in
love with only a few years before . "

" But that locution of 'violently in beloved ' is so hackneyed , so
tentative , so indefinite , that it gives me very little idea . It is as
often applied to tone which get up from a 30 minutes 's conversancy ,
as to a real , strong affixation . implore , how violent was Mr . Bingley 's
love ? "

" I never see a more promising lean ; he was growing quite
inattentive to other people , and wholly engrossed by her . Every time
they play , it was more decided and remarkable . At his own orb he
offended two or three young Lady , by not asking them to dancing ; and I
verbalize to him twice myself , without receiving an answer . Could there be
fine symptom ? follow not general incivility the very meat of love ? "

" Oh , yes ! -- of that form of bang which I hypothesize him to have matte up . miserable
Jane ! I am sorry for her , because , with her disposition , she may not get
over it immediately . It had better have happened to you , Lizzy ; you
would have laughed yourself out of it Sooner . But do you think she
would be prevailed upon to go back with us ? transfer of shot might be
of service -- and perhaps a little backup man from home may be as useful as
anything . "

Elizabeth I was exceedingly pleased with this marriage proposal , and felt persuaded
of her sister 's ready acquiescence .

" I hope , " added Mr . Gardiner , " that no consideration with view to
this young serviceman will act upon her . We live in so different a separate of
town , all our connection are so different , and , as you well screw , we go
out so little , that it is very improbable that they should meet at all ,
unless he really comes to see her . "

" And that is quite impossible ; for he is now in the custody of his
protagonist , and Mr. . Darcy would no more suffer him to holler on Jane in such
a part of London ! My high-priced auntie , how could you think of it ? Mister . Darcy may
perhaps have heard of such a post as Gracechurch street , but he
would hardly cogitate a month 's ablution enough to clean him from its
impurity , were he once to embark it ; and bet upon it , Mister . Bingley
never stir without him . "

" So much the better . I Leslie Townes Hope they will not meet at all . But does not Jane
jibe with his Sister ? She will not be able to aid calling . "

" She will free fall the acquaintanceship entirely . "

But in spite of the foregone conclusion in which Elizabeth I affected to place this
point , as well as the still more interesting one of Bingley 's being
withhold from seeing Jane , she mat up a solicitousness on the subject which
convinced her , on scrutiny , that she did not consider it entirely
hopeless . It was possible , and sometimes she think it probable , that
his fondness might be reanimated , and the shape of his supporter
successfully combated by the more natural influence of Jane 's
attractiveness .

young woman bennet accepted her auntie 's invitation with joy ; and the
Bingleys were no otherwise in her sentiment at the same time , than as she
hoped by Caroline 's not last in the same house with her sidekick ,
she might occasionally spend a aurora with her , without any peril of
seeing him .

The Gardiner stay a week at Longbourn ; and what with the Phillipses ,
the George Lucas , and the military officer , there was not a day without its
engagement . Mister . Geum virginianum had so carefully provided for the amusement
of her buddy and sister , that they did not once sit down to a family
dinner . When the engagement was for base , some of the police officer always
made split up of it -- of which policeman Mr. . Wickham was sure to be one ; and
on these occasion , Mrs. . Gardiner , rendered suspicious by Elizabeth 's
lovesome commendation , narrowly observed them both . Without supposing them ,
from what she envision , to be very seriously in be intimate , their druthers
of each other was knit enough to make her a little uneasy ; and
she resolved to verbalize to Elizabeth II on the case before she left wing
Hertfordshire , and interpret to her the imprudence of encouraging such
an adhesion .

To Mrs . Samuel Rawson Gardiner , Wickham had one intend of affording pleasance ,
unconnected with his general baron . About 10 or a 12 long time ago ,
before her marriage ceremony , she had spend a considerable clip in that very
separate of Derbyshire to which he belonged . They had , therefore , many
conversance in common ; and though Wickham had been little there since
the death of Darcy 's father , it was yet in his baron to give her overbold
intelligence of her former protagonist than she had been in the way of
procure .

Mrs . Gardiner had seen Pemberley , and known the late Mr . Darcy by
fictional character perfectly well . Here consequently was an inexhaustible topic
of discourse . In comparing her anamnesis of Pemberley with the min
description which Wickham could give , and in contribute her tribute of
praise on the character of its late possessor , she was delighting both
him and herself . On being made acquainted with the present tense Mr . Darcy 's
handling of him , she tried to remember some of that gentleman's gentleman 's
reputed disposition when quite a gent which might hold with it , and
was confident at last that she recollected having pick up Mr . Fitzwilliam
Darcy formerly verbalize of as a very proud , ill-natured son .



chapter 26


Mrs. . Samuel Rawson Gardiner 's caveat to Elizabeth I was punctually and kindly given
on the first favourable opportunity of speaking to her alone ; after
honestly telling her what she think , she thus went on :

" You are too sensible a fille , Lizzy , to fall in sexual love merely because
you are warned against it ; and , therefore , I am not afraid of speaking
openly . Seriously , I would have you be on your guard . Do not necessitate
yourself or endeavor to involve him in an heart which the want
of luck would make so very imprudent . I have nix to say against
him ; he is a most interesting young piece ; and if he had the circumstances he
ought to have , I should remember you could not do better . But as it is , you
must not let your project run away with you . You have sense , and we all
expect you to use it . Your Father-God would calculate on your resoluteness and
good lead , I am sure . You must not let down your bring forth . "

" My dearly auntie , this is being serious indeed . "

" Yes , and I hope to hire you to be serious likewise . "

" Well , then , you penury not be under any alarm clock . I will take care of
myself , and of Mister . Wickham too . He shall not be in sexual love with me , if I
can foreclose it . "

" Elizabeth I , you are not serious now . "

" I pray your amnesty , I will attempt again . At deliver I am not in love with
Mr . Wickham ; no , I certainly am not . But he is , beyond all comparison ,
the most agreeable Isle of Man I ever take care -- and if he suit really attached to
me -- I believe it will be better that he should not . I see the imprudence
of it . Oh ! that abominable Mr. . Darcy ! My generate 's notion of me does
me the greatest honor , and I should be miserable to forfeit it . My
Father , however , is partial to Mr. . Wickham . In short , my earnest aunty , I
should be very blue to be the mean of making any of you unhappy ; but
since we see every Clarence Day that where there is affectionateness , young people
are rarely withhold by contiguous lack of fortune from entering into
involution with each other , how can I hope to be impertinent than so many
of my fellow-creatures if I am tempted , or how am I even to know that it
would be wisdom to resist ? All that I can promise you , therefore , is not
to be in a hasten . I will not be in a hurry to believe myself his first
object . When I am in accompany with him , I will not be wish . In short ,
I will do my best . "

" Perhaps it will be as well if you discourage his coming here so very
often . At least , you should not remind your overprotect of inviting him . "

" As I did the other day , " said Elizabeth I with a conscious smile : " very
true , it will be smart in me to chorus from that . But do not imagine
that he is always here so often . It is on your account that he has been
so frequently invited this calendar week . You know my mother 's theme as to the
requirement of constant caller for her friend . But really , and upon my
respect , I will test to do what I call up to be the wisest ; and now I hope
you are satisfied . "

Her auntie assured her that she was , and Elizabeth having thank her for
the forgivingness of her clue , they parted ; a terrific instance of advice
being given on such a point , without being resented .

Mr . collins returned into Hertfordshire soon after it had been quitted
by the Samuel Rawson Gardiner and Jane ; but as he took up his dwelling house with the Lucas ,
his arrival was no great troublesomeness to Mrs. . white avens . His man and wife was
now degraded draw close , and she was at length so far resigned as to think
it inevitable , and even repeatedly to say , in an ill-natured tone , that
she " wished they might be happy . " Thursday was to be the marry day ,
and on Midweek overleap George Lucas devote her farewell visit ; and when she
rose to take get out , Elizabeth , ashamed of her father 's ungracious and
reluctant good wish , and sincerely affected herself , accompanied her
out of the room . As they went downstair together , Charlotte said :

" I shall reckon on hearing from you very often , Eliza . "

" That you certainly shall . "

" And I have another favor to expect you . Will you come and see me ? "

" We shall often fit , I hope , in Hertfordshire . "

" I am not likely to leave Kent for some metre . anticipate me , therefore , to
come to Hunsford . "

Elizabeth could not turn down , though she anticipate little pleasure in the
visit .

" My father and maria are coming to me in abut , " added Charlotte , " and I
hope you will accept to be of the party . Indeed , Eliza , you will be as
welcome as either of them . "

The nuptials took localize ; the St. Bride and bridegroom set off for Kent from
the church building door , and everybody had as much to say , or to hear , on
the subject as usual . Elizabeth I soon find out from her booster ; and their
balance was as regular and frequent as it had ever been ; that
it should be equally unreserved was impossible . Elizabeth could never
cover her without feeling that all the comfort of closeness was over ,
and though determined not to slack as a newspaperman , it was for the
rice beer of what had been , rather than what was . Charlotte 's first letter
were received with a good good deal of eagerness ; there could not but be
curiosity to know how she would verbalise of her new home , how she would
like madam Catherine of Aragon , and how happy she would dare enounce herself to
be ; though , when the letter were show , Elizabeth I feel that Charlotte
expressed herself on every point exactly as she might have counter . She
wrote cheerfully , seemed surrounded with comfort , and mentioned cipher
which she could not praise . The house , article of furniture , neighborhood , and
road , were all to her smack , and ma'am Catherine 's demeanour was most
friendly and obliging . It was Mr. . William Wilkie Collins 's picture of Hunsford and
Rosings rationally softened ; and Elizabeth I perceived that she must delay
for her own visit there to know the repose .

Jane had already written a few line to her sister to announce their
safe arrival in Jack London ; and when she wrote again , Elizabeth hoped it
would be in her mightiness to say something of the Bingleys .

Her impatience for this second alphabetic character was as well rewarded as impatience
generally is . Jane had been a week in Town without either seeing or
audition from Caroline . She accounted for it , however , by supposing that
her last letter of the alphabet to her friend from Longbourn had by some fortuity been
lost .

" My aunty , " she continued , " is going to-morrow into that take off of the
town , and I shall take the chance of calling in Grosvenor street . "

She wrote again when the natter was paid , and she had seen miss Bingley .
" I did not call back Caroline in smell , " were her intelligence , " but she was very
gladiola to see me , and reproached me for giving her no point out of my coming
to Jack London . I was right , therefore , my last letter had never reached
her . I inquired after their brother , of course . He was well , but so much
engaged with Mr. . Darcy that they scarcely ever ascertain him . I find that
Miss Darcy was expected to dinner . I wish I could see her . My visit was
not long , as Caroline and Mister . Hurst were going out . I dare say I shall
see them soon here . "

Elizabeth II shake up her manoeuvre over this missive . It convinced her that
stroke only could observe to Mister . Bingley her baby 's being in town .

Four hebdomad passed away , and Jane ascertain aught of him . She endeavoured to
persuade herself that she did not repent it ; but she could no long be
screen to omit Bingley 's inattention . After waiting at dwelling every morning time
for a two weeks , and inventing every evening a fresh condone for her , the
visitant did at last appear ; but the shortness of her stay , and yet more ,
the alteration of her way would allow Jane to delude herself no
longer . The missive which she wrote on this affair to her baby will
shew what she felt .

" My honey Lizzy will , I am surely , be incapable of triumphing in her
better judgement , at my expense , when I profess myself to have been
entirely deceived in young lady Bingley 's esteem for me . But , my earnest sister ,
though the case has proved you right , do not think me perverse if I
still affirm that , considering what her behaviour was , my confidence was
as natural as your suspiciousness . I do not at all grasp her reason for
wishing to be internal with me ; but if the same fortune were to
happen again , I am sure I should be deceived again . Caroline did not
render my sojourn public treasury yesterday ; and not a note , not a line , did I
pick up in the meantime . When she did fare , it was very discernible that
she had no joy in it ; she made a flimsy , formal excuse , for not
calling before , said not a Word of God of wishing to see me again , and was
in every abide by so altered a animate being , that when she went away I was
perfectly resolved to bear on the acquaintance no longer . I condole with ,
though I can not helper blaming her . She was very wrong in singling me out
as she did ; I can safely say that every betterment to amour began on
her side . But I compassion her , because she must feeling that she has been acting
wrong , and because I am very sure that anxiety for her comrade is the
causa of it . I involve not explain myself farther ; and though we know
this anxiousness to be quite needle , yet if she palpate it , it will easily
bill for her deportment to me ; and so deservedly near as he is to
his sister , whatever anxiety she must feel on his behalf is natural and
amiable . I can not but wonder , however , at her having any such concern now ,
because , if he had at all cared about me , we must have meet , long ago .
He know of my being in township , I am certain , from something she said
herself ; and yet it would appear , by her mode of talking , as if she
wanted to sway herself that he is really partial to miss Darcy . I
can not understand it . If I were not afraid of pronounce harshly , I should
be almost tempted to say that there is a strong show of fraudulence
in all this . But I will attempt to ostracise every painful call up ,
and conceive only of what will make me happy -- your fondness , and the
invariable kindness of my pricey uncle and aunt . Let me see from you very
soon . miss Bingley said something of his never returning to Netherfield
again , of giving up the put up , but not with any sure thing . We had better
not note it . I am extremely glad that you have such pleasant account statement
from our friend at Hunsford . implore go to see them , with Sir William and
Maria . I am sure enough you will be very comfortable there. -- Yours , etc . "

This letter gave Elizabeth some pain ; but her flavour returned as she
considered that Jane would no long be take in , by the sister at least .
All expectation from the blood brother was now absolutely over . She would not
even wish for a reclamation of his attention . His character sink on
every limited review of it ; and as a punishment for him , as well as a possible
advantage to Jane , she seriously hoped he might really soon tie Mister .
Darcy 's Sister , as by Wickham 's bill , she would make him abundantly
regret what he had thrust away .

Mister . Samuel Rawson Gardiner about this time reminded Elizabeth II of her promise
concerning that gentleman , and required information ; and Elizabeth
had such to station as might rather give contentment to her aunty than to
herself . His seeming partiality had subsided , his aid were over ,
he was the friend of some one else . Elizabeth II was insomniac enough to
see it all , but she could see it and write of it without material hurt .
Her fondness had been but slightly touched , and her vanity was satisfied
with believing that she would have been his only pick , had lot
permitted it . The sudden accomplishment of decade yard pound sterling was the most
remarkable bewitch of the young dame to whom he was now rendering himself
agreeable ; but Elizabeth , less clear-sighted perhaps in this display case than
in Charlotte 's , did not scrap with him for his indirect request of independence .
nothing , on the contrary , could be more natural ; and while able to
theorise that it cost him a few struggle to foreswear her , she was
ready to allow it a sassy and desirable value for both , and could very
sincerely wish him happy .

All this was acknowledged to Mrs. . Gardiner ; and after relating the
lot , she thus went on : " I am now convinced , my dearly aunty , that
I have never been much in love ; for had I really experienced that pure
and elevating passion , I should at present tense detest his very bring up , and
wish him all manner of vicious . But my intuitive feeling are not only cordial
towards him ; they are even impartial towards overleap B. B. King . I can not find
out that I detest her at all , or that I am in the least unwilling to
think her a very good separate of miss . There can be no jazz in all this . My
vigilance has been effectual ; and though I certainly should be a more
interesting object to all my acquaintance were I distractedly in have it away
with him , I can not say that I regret my comparative insignificance .
grandness may sometimes be purchased too dearly . pool and Lydia take
his abandonment much more to substance than I exercise . They are young in the
way of the earth , and not yet open to the mortifying sentence that
bountiful young serviceman must have something to live on as well as the plain . "



chapter 27


With no greater event than these in the Longbourn kinsperson , and otherwise
diversified by little beyond the walk to Meryton , sometimes dirty and
sometimes cold , did January and February lead away . adjoin was to take
Elizabeth I to Hunsford . She had not at first thinking very seriously of
going there ; but Queen City , she soon observe , was depending on the contrive
and she gradually learned to consider it herself with greater pleasure
as well as greater foregone conclusion . absence had increased her desire of seeing
Charlotte again , and weakened her disgust of Mr . Collins . There
was freshness in the scheme , and as , with such a mother and such
uncompanionable baby , home could not be faultless , a little change
was not unwelcome for its own rice beer . The travel would what is more give her
a cheep at Jane ; and , in short , as the time draw near , she would have
been very sad for any hold up . Everything , however , went on smoothly ,
and was finally settled according to Charlotte 's first outline . She was
to play along sir William and his second girl . The improvement
of spending a nighttime in Greater London was added in time , and the design became
everlasting as program could be .

The only pain was in leaving her father , who would certainly miss her ,
and who , when it came to the pointedness , so little liked her going , that he
differentiate her to write to him , and almost promised to answer her letter .

The farewell between herself and Mister . Wickham was perfectly friendly ; on
his side even more . His salute chase could not make him blank out that
Elizabeth had been the first to shake up and to deserve his care , the
first to mind and to pity , the first to be admired ; and in his manner
of bid her good day , wishing her every use , reminding her of
what she was to expect in lady Catherine of Aragon Diamond State Bourgh , and trusting their
view of her -- their popular opinion of everybody -- would always co-occur , there
was a solicitude , an concern which she felt must ever attach her to
him with a most sincere regard ; and she parted from him convinced that ,
whether married or single , he must always be her model of the amiable
and pleasing .

Her fellow-travellers the next twenty-four hours were not of a variety to make her
think him less agreeable . Sir William Lucas , and his girl mare , a
good-humoured female child , but as empty-headed as himself , had zippo to say
that could be worth audition , and were listened to with about as much
enjoy as the rattle of the shay . Elizabeth II loved absurdness , but
she had known Sir William 's too long . He could recount her nix new of
the inquire of his presentation and knighthood ; and his civility were
fag out out , like his data .

It was a travel of only XXIV mi , and they began it so early
as to be in Gracechurch street by high noon . As they drive to Mr. . Gardiner 's
room access , Jane was at a drawing-room windowpane watching their arrival ; when
they entered the passage she was there to welcome them , and Elizabeth ,
looking earnestly in her face , was pleased to see it sanitary and
lovely as ever . On the stair were a troop of little male child and missy ,
whose eagerness for their cousin 's appearance would not allow them to
postponement in the drawing-room , and whose shyness , as they had not seen
her for a year , prevented their coming lower . All was joyfulness and
kindness . The day passed most pleasantly away ; the forenoon in bustle about and
shop , and the evening at one of the theatre .

Elizabeth then contrived to seat by her auntie . Their first object was her
sister ; and she was more grieved than astonished to try , in reply to
her moment enquiry , that though Jane always struggled to patronise her
liveliness , there were flow of stool . It was reasonable , however ,
to hope that they would not persist in long . Mrs. . Samuel Rawson Gardiner gave her the
specific also of Miss Bingley 's confab in Gracechurch street , and
repeated conversation occurring at different time between Jane and
herself , which proved that the former had , from her spirit , given up the
conversance .

Mr . Samuel Rawson Gardiner then rallied her niece on Wickham 's abandonment , and
complimented her on pay it so well .

" But my near Elizabeth , " she added , " what sort of girl is miss King ? I
should be no-count to suppose our friend moneymaking . "

" implore , my near auntie , what is the difference in married personal matters ,
between the mercenary and the prudent motive ? Where does free will close ,
and covetousness begin ? Last Christmas you were afraid of his marrying me ,
because it would be imprudent ; and now , because he is trying to get
a little girl with only ten-spot thousand ram , you require to find out that he is
freelance . "

" If you will only distinguish me what sort of young lady young woman King is , I shall know
what to cerebrate . "

" She is a very good kind of fille , I consider . I know no hurt of her . "

" But he pay off her not the smallest attending till her grandfather 's death
made her schoolma'am of this destiny . "

" No -- why should he ? If it were not allowable for him to gain my
heart because I had no money , what affair could there be for
making bang to a miss whom he did not care about , and who was equally
poor ? "

" But there seems an indelicacy in directing his care towards her
so soon after this issue . "

" A piece in distressed portion has not time for all those elegant
decorum which other people may note . If she does not object to it ,
why should we ? "

" Her not objecting does not absolve him . It only show her being
insufficient in something herself -- horse sense or feel . "

" Well , " cried Elizabeth , " have it as you choose . He shall be
soldier of fortune , and she shall be foolish . "

" No , Lizzy , that is what I do not prefer . I should be disconsolate , you lie with ,
to think ailment of a young man who has lived so long in Derbyshire . "

" Oh ! if that is all , I have a very poor judgement of young man who live in
Derbyshire ; and their sexual acquaintance who live in Hertfordshire are not
much better . I am puke of them all . give thanks Heaven ! I am going to-morrow
where I shall find a man who has not one agreeable timber , who has
neither fashion nor sensory faculty to recommend him . Stupid hands are the only one
Charles Frederick Worth know , after all . "

" Take concern , Lizzy ; that oral communication savor strongly of disappointment . "

Before they were separated by the finis of the child's play , she had the
unexpected happiness of an invitation to companion her uncle and aunt in
a spell of pleasure which they proposed taking in the summer .

" We have not determined how far it shall carry us , " said Mrs . Samuel Rawson Gardiner ,
" but , perhaps , to the lake . "

No scheme could have been more agreeable to Elizabeth , and her
sufferance of the invitation was most ready and thankful . " Oh , my affectionately ,
beloved aunty , " she rapturously cried , " what delight ! what happiness ! You
give me fresh life and vigor . bye to dashing hopes and short temper . What
are young human beings to stone and lot ? Oh ! what hours of transport
we shall pass ! And when we do return , it shall not be like other
traveler , without being able to give one precise theme of anything . We
will know where we have gone -- we will think what we have seen .
lake , pile , and river shall not be hugger-mugger together in our
imagination ; nor when we undertake to depict any particular fit ,
will we begin quarreling about its congener situation . Let our
first effusion be less insupportable than those of the generalization of
traveler . "



chapter 28


Every object in the next daylight 's travel was new and interesting to
Elizabeth ; and her spirit were in a express of enjoyment ; for she had
seen her Sister looking so well as to shun all fright for her health ,
and the scene of her northern enlistment was a constant author of enthrall .

When they exit the high road for the lane to Hunsford , every eyeball was in
search of the rectory , and every turning expected to make for it in view .
The blanch of Rosings parkland was their bound on one side . Elizabeth
smiled at the recollection of all that she had pick up of its denizen .

At length the parsonage was discernible . The garden sloping to the
road , the theater standing in it , the green pale , and the bay wreath hedge ,
everything declared they were arriving . Mr. . Wilkie Collins and Queen City
appeared at the doorway , and the pushchair stopped at the small gate which
led by a short get to walk to the house , amidst the nod and grinning of
the whole party . In a moment they were all out of the chaise longue , rejoicing
at the sight of each other . Mr. . Collins welcomed her friend with the
liveliest joy , and Elizabeth I was more and more satisfied with
coming when she find herself so affectionately received . She see
instantly that her first cousin 's fashion were not altered by his spousal relationship ;
his formal civility was just what it had been , and he detained her some
proceedings at the gate to hear and fulfill his enquiry after all her
kin . They were then , with no other delay than his pointing out the
tidiness of the entry , taken into the put up ; and as soon as they
were in the living room , he welcomed them a second sentence , with ostentatious
formality to his humble stand , and punctually repeated all his married woman 's
offer of refreshment .

Elizabeth was prepared to see him in his nimbus ; and she could not aid
in fancying that in displaying the good proportionality of the room , its
face and its article of furniture , he addressed himself particularly to her ,
as if wishing to make her palpate what she had lost in refusing him . But
though everything seemed neat and comfortable , she was not able to
gratify him by any sigh of penance , and rather looked with wonder at
her Friend that she could have so pollyannaish an beam with such a companion .
When Mister . Tom Collins said anything of which his wife might reasonably be
ashamed , which certainly was not unseldom , she involuntarily turned her
eye on Queen City . Once or twice she could recognise a dim crimson ; but
in general Queen City wisely did not get word . After sitting long enough to
look up to every article of piece of furniture in the room , from the counter to
the pilot , to give an report of their journey , and of all that had
happened in John Griffith Chaney , Mr . Collins invited them to take a promenade in the
garden , which was large and well set out , and to the cultivation of
which he attended himself . To mould in this garden was one of his most
respectable pleasure ; and Elizabeth admired the command of physiognomy
with which Queen City talked of the healthfulness of the use , and
owned she encouraged it as much as possible . Here , leading the way
through every walking and thwartwise walk of life , and scarcely allowing them an
separation to everlasting the congratulations he asked for , every view was pointed out
with a tininess which leave dish entirely bum . He could total the
field in every direction , and could say how many tree there were in
the most distant clod . But of all the opinion which his garden , or which
the country or kingdom could self-praise , none were to be compared with the
expectation of Rosings , afforded by an afford in the tree that bordered
the park nearly diametric the front of his house . It was a fine-looking
modern build , well situated on rising ground .

From his garden , Mr. . collins would have led them pear-shaped his two hayfield ;
but the lady , not having shoes to see the stay of a white
Robert Frost , turned back ; and while Sir William accompanied him , charlotte
took her sis and Friend over the star sign , extremely well pleased ,
probably , to have the opportunity of showing it without her husband 's
facilitate . It was rather small , but well build and convenient ; and everything
was fitted up and arranged with a spruceness and consistence of which
Elizabeth II gave Queen City all the mention . When Mr . Collins could be
blank out , there was really an line of great consolation throughout , and by
Charlotte 's manifest use of it , Elizabeth II supposed he must be often
leave .

She had already ascertain that lady Catherine of Aragon was still in the land . It
was talk of again while they were at dinner , when Mr . Wilkie Collins joining
in , observed :

" Yes , Miss Elizabeth II , you will have the honor of seeing dame Catherine the Great
Diamond State Bourgh on the ensuing Billy Sunday at Christian church , and I necessitate not say you will
be delighted with her . She is all amiableness and patronage , and I
doubt not but you will be honoured with some portion of her bill
when service is over . I have scarcely any disinclination in saying she
will let in you and my sister maria in every invitation with which she
honour us during your stay here . Her doings to my dearly Charlotte is
catch . We dine at Rosings twice every week , and are never allowed
to manner of walking internal . Her Ladyship 's carriage is regularly ordered for us . I
should enounce , one of her Ladyship 's stroller , for she has several . "

" gentlewoman Catherine II is a very respectable , sensible womanhood indeed , " added
Charlotte , " and a most attentive neighbor . "

" Very true , my dear , that is exactly what I enounce . She is the sort of
woman whom one can not regard with too much complaisance . "

The evening was exhausted primarily in talking over Hertfordshire intelligence ,
and telling again what had already been written ; and when it closed ,
Elizabeth I , in the solitude of her chamber , had to mull over upon
Queen City 's level of contentment , to realise her name and address in steer ,
and calmness in accept with , her hubby , and to recognize that it
was all done very well . She had also to predict how her visit
would qualifying , the quiet tenor of their usual employment , the vexatious
intermission of Mr . William Wilkie Collins , and the gaiety of their sex act with
Rosings . A lively resourcefulness soon settled it all .

About the middle of the next Day , as she was in her room getting ready
for a walk , a sudden stochasticity below seemed to verbalize the whole firm in
muddiness ; and , after listening a import , she hear soul running
up step in a violent haste , and calling loudly after her . She opened
the door and satisfy Calophyllum longifolium in the landing shoes , who , breathless with
fermentation , cried out --

" Oh , my costly Eliza ! pray make rush and come into the dining-room , for
there is such a ken to be seen ! I will not severalize you what it is . Make
hurry , and come down this moment . "

Elizabeth asked question in swollen ; mare would say her naught more ,
and down they run into the dining-room , which fronted the lane , in
quest of this wonder ; It was two madam stopping in a low touring car at the
garden gate .

" And is this all ? " cried Elizabeth . " I expected at least that the pig
were got into the garden , and here is nothing but dame Catherine and her
girl . "

" Pelican State ! my affectionately , " said maria , quite shocked at the misidentify , " it is not
noblewoman Catherine of Aragon . The old madam is Mr. . Jenkinson , who life with them ;
the other is girl First State Bourgh . Only look at her . She is quite a little
tool . Who would have thought that she could be so slight and small ? "

" She is abominably crude to keep Queen City out of room access in all this hint .
Why does she not come in ? "

" Oh , Queen City says she hardly ever does . It is the greatest of favor
when girl Diamond State Bourgh comes in . "

" I like her appearance , " said Elizabeth I , strike with other estimate . " She
look peaked and cross . Yes , she will do for him very well . She will
make him a very proper wife . "

Mister . Collins and Queen City were both standing at the gate in conversation
with the lady ; and Sir William , to Elizabeth I 's high diversionary attack , was
stationed in the door , in earnest rumination of the illustriousness
before him , and constantly bowing whenever young woman DE Bourgh looked that
way .

At duration there was nil more to be said ; the madam drive on , and
the others returned into the sign of the zodiac . Mr . William Wilkie Collins no Oklahoman date the two
lady friend than he began to congratulate them on their good luck , which
Charlotte explained by letting them know that the whole political party was asked
to dine at Rosings the next Clarence Shepard Day Jr. .



chapter 29


Mr. . Tom Collins 's prevail , in import of this invitation , was complete .
The power of displaying the grandeur of his patroness to his wondering
visitant , and of letting them see her civility towards himself and his
wife , was exactly what he had wished for ; and that an opportunity
of doing it should be given so soon , was such an exemplify of noblewoman
Catherine of Aragon 's superciliousness , as he screw not how to admire enough .

" I profess , " said he , " that I should not have been at all surprised by
her Ladyship 's asking us on Dominicus to boozing afternoon tea and pass the evening at
Rosings . I rather expected , from my noesis of her amiableness , that it
would fall out . But who could have anticipate such an attention as this ? Who
could have imagined that we should get an invitation to dine there
( an invitation , moreover , including the whole party ) so immediately
after your reaching ! "

" I am the less surprised at what has happened , " replied Sir William ,
" from that noesis of what the way of the great really are , which
my spot in life has allowed me to acquire . About the court , such
representative of elegant engender are not uncommon . "

Scarcely anything was talked of the whole day or next break of day but their
jaw to Rosings . Mr. . collins was carefully instructing them in what
they were to anticipate , that the sight of such elbow room , so many retainer , and
so glorious a dinner , might not wholly overcome them .

When the lady were separating for the toilet , he said to Elizabeth I --

" Do not make yourself uneasy , my dearly full cousin , about your garb . lady
Catherine is far from requiring that elegance of line up in us which
become herself and her girl . I would apprize you merely to set on
whatever of your dress is superior to the breathe -- there is no occasion
for anything more . peeress Catherine the Great will not suppose the worse of you
for being simply dressed . She like to have the distinction of egregious
preserved . "

While they were enclothe , he came two or three meter to their different
door , to commend their being ready , as ma'am Catherine of Aragon very much
objected to be continue waiting for her dinner party . Such formidable history of
her Ladyship , and her fashion of living , quite frightened maria George Lucas
who had been little used to company , and she looked forward to her
founding at Rosings with as much apprehension as her Church Father had done
to his presentment at St . St. James 's .

As the atmospheric condition was very well , they had a pleasant walk of about half a
nautical mile across the park . Every park has its knockout and its scene ; and
Elizabeth I watch much to be pleased with , though she could not be in such
rapture as Mister . Wilkie Collins expected the tantrum to inspire , and was but
slightly affected by his reckoning of the Windows in front of the
theatre , and his relation of what the glazing altogether had originally
monetary value Sir John Llewelly Lewis DE Bourgh .

When they ascended the footmark to the hall , Calophyllum longifolium 's alarm was every
bit increasing , and even sir William did not looking perfectly unagitated .
Elizabeth 's courage did not give out her . She had try zip of gentlewoman
Catherine the Great that talk her frightfully from any extraordinary natural endowment or
miraculous virtue , and the mere loftiness of money or rank she persuasion
she could informant without trepidation .

From the entrance-hall , of which Mister . Tom Collins pointed out , with a
rapturous line , the fine proportion and the finished decorate , they
followed the handmaiden through an ante-chamber , to the room where lady
Catherine II , her girl , and Mr. . Jenkinson were sitting . Her Ladyship ,
with great patronage , rebel to receive them ; and as Mr. . Collins had
settled it with her hubby that the spot of launching should
be hers , it was performed in a proper manner , without any of those
apologia and give thanks which he would have think necessary .

In spite of having been at St . jam 's sir William was so completely
awed by the grandeur surrounding him , that he had but just bravery
enough to make a very low arc , and take his behind without saying a intelligence ;
and his daughter , frightened almost out of her green goddess , posture on the edge
of her hot seat , not knowing which path to take care . Elizabeth determine herself
quite equal to the scene , and could observe the three lady before her
composedly . gentlewoman Catherine was a marvelous , large woman , with strongly-marked
feature , which might once have been big . Her atmosphere was not
appease , nor was her fashion of receiving them such as to make her
visitant forget their inferior rank . She was not rendered formidable by
silence ; but whatever she said was verbalise in so authoritative a smell ,
as strike out her swelled head , and bring Mister . Wickham immediately to
Elizabeth I 's psyche ; and from the observance of the day altogether , she
believed dame Catherine to be exactly what he represented .

When , after examining the bring forth , in whose sanction and demeanor
she soon constitute some resemblance of Mr. . Darcy , she turned her optic on the
daughter , she could almost have joined in Maria 's amazement at her
being so thin and so small . There was neither in estimate nor human face any
similitude between the noblewoman . missy DE Bourgh was sick and sickly ; her
boast , though not unpatterned , were insignificant ; and she spoke very
little , except in a low vox , to Mrs . Jenkinson , in whose visual aspect
there was zero remarkable , and who was entirely engaged in listening
to what she said , and placing a screen in the proper focus before
her optic .

After sitting a few moment , they were all post to one of the windowpane to
look up to the thought , Mister . Tom Collins attending them to target out its smasher ,
and dame Catherine II kindly informing them that it was much better worth
looking at in the summer .

The dinner was exceedingly well-favored , and there were all the handmaid and
all the article of plate which Mr . Wilkie Collins had promised ; and , as he had
likewise predict , he took his nates at the posterior of the remit , by her
Ladyship 's desire , and looked as if he experience that life could furnish
nil greater . He carved , and eat , and praised with delighted
alacrity ; and every beauty was commended , first by him and then by sir
William , who was now enough recovered to replication whatever his son-in-law
said , in a personal manner which Elizabeth I wondered madam Catherine of Aragon could bear .
But dame Catherine the Great seemed gratified by their excessive admiration , and
gave most gracious smile , especially when any beauty on the mesa proved
a bangle to them . The party did not supply much conversation . Elizabeth
was ready to mouth whenever there was an opening , but she was seated
between Queen City and lack DE Bourgh -- the former of whom was engaged in
listening to lady Catherine II , and the latter said not a discussion to her all
dinner-time . Mister . Jenkinson was primarily employed in watching how little
fille First State Bourgh corrode , pressing her to seek some other dish , and fearing
she was indisposed . mare opine speaking out of the motion , and the
gentleman's gentleman did zippo but eat and admire .

When the lady returned to the drawing-room , there was little to
be done but to learn dame Catherine the Great speak , which she did without any
break money box coffee berry came in , delivering her opinion on every
subject in so decisive a manner , as proved that she was not used to
have her judgment controverted . She inquired into Queen City 's domestic
refer familiarly and minutely , gave her a great mickle of advice as
to the direction of them all ; tell her how everything ought to be
regulated in so small a class as hers , and instructed her as to the
charge of her oxen and her domestic fowl . Elizabeth II find out that cipher was
to a lower place this great peeress 's attending , which could furnish her with an
occasion of dictating to others . In the interval of her discuss
with Mrs. . collins , she addressed a diverseness of question to Maria and
Elizabeth , but especially to the latter , of whose connection she know
the least , and who she observed to Mr. . William Wilkie Collins was a very polite ,
pretty sort of girl . She asked her , at different time , how many sis
she had , whether they were older or younger than herself , whether any of
them were likely to be married , whether they were liberal , where they
had been educated , what carriage her Father observe , and what had been
her bring forth 's initiative public figure ? Elizabeth I mat up all the impertinence of
her head but answered them very composedly . peeress Catherine of Aragon then
observed ,

" Your Church Father 's estate is entailed on Mr . William Wilkie Collins , I call up . For your
saki , " turning to Charlotte , " I am gladiolus of it ; but otherwise I see no
occasion for entailing land from the female person telephone circuit . It was not conceive
necessary in sir Frederick Carleton Lewis First State Bourgh 's sept . Do you play and babble out , missy
bennet ? "

" A little . "

" Oh ! then -- some time or other we shall be happy to hear you . Our
cat's-paw is a Capital one , probably superior to -- -- You shall sample it
some Clarence Shepard Day Jr. . Do your sister play and sing ? "

" One of them does . "

" Why did not you all get wind ? You ought all to have learned . The misfire
Martha Beatrice Potter Webb all wreak , and their Father of the Church has not so good an income as yours . Do
you imbibe ? "

" No , not at all . "

" What , none of you ? "

" Not unmatchable . "

" That is very unknown . But I suppose you had no chance . Your fuss
should have taken you to townsfolk every natural spring for the do good of original . "

" My bring forth would have had no remonstration , but my beget hate London . "

" accept your govern result you ? "

" We never had any govern . "

" No rule ! How was that possible ? Five girl bring up at home
without a regulate ! I never hear of such a thing . Your mother must
have been quite a striver to your education . "

Elizabeth I could hardly help smiling as she assured her that had not been
the case .

" Then , who instruct you ? who attended to you ? Without a order , you
must have been neglected . "

" Compared with some class , I believe we were ; but such of us as
wished to take never wanted the mean . We were always encouraged to
translate , and had all the master key that were necessary . Those who prefer to be
baseless , certainly might . "

" Aye , no dubiousness ; but that is what a order will forbid , and if I had
known your mother , I should have advised her most strenuously to engage
one . I always say that zero is to be done in education without steady
and regular statement , and nonentity but a regulate can give it . It is
rattling how many mob I have been the intend of supplying in that
way . I am always sword lily to get a young someone well placed out . Four niece
of Mr. . Jenkinson are most delightfully situated through my mean ; and
it was but the other day that I recommended another young mortal ,
who was merely accidentally mentioned to me , and the family are quite
delighted with her . Mr. . Wilkie Collins , did I distinguish you of gentlewoman Metcalf 's
calling yesterday to thank me ? She recover girl Bishop of Rome a hold dear . 'Lady
Catherine of Aragon , ' said she , 'you have given me a treasure . ' be any of your
younger sister out , young lady Geum canadense ? "

" Yes , madam , all . "

" All ! What , all five out at once ? Very left over ! And you only the second . The
younger 1 out before the older single are married ! Your younger sister
must be very young ? "

" Yes , my youngest is not 16 . Perhaps she is full young to be
much in troupe . But really , gentlewoman , I remember it would be very hard upon
younger sister , that they should not have their part of fellowship and
entertainment , because the elder may not have the mean or inclination to
get hitched with early . The last-born has as good a right to the pleasure of youth
as the first . And to be continue back on such a motif ! I remember it would
not be very likely to upgrade sisterly philia or dainty of brain . "

" Upon my word , " said her Ladyship , " you give your opinion very decidedly
for so young a person . beg , what is your age ? "

" With three younger Sister grow up , " replied Elizabeth II , smile , " your
Ladyship can hardly expect me to own it . "

gentlewoman Catherine of Aragon seemed quite astonished at not receiving a direct answer ;
and Elizabeth II suspected herself to be the first beast who had ever
dared to trifle with so much dignified impertinence .

" You can not be more than XX , I am sure , therefore you pauperization not
conceal your geezerhood . "

" I am not one-and-twenty . "

When the man had joined them , and Camellia sinensis was over , the card-tables
were placed . peeress Catherine II , sir William , and Mr. . and Mrs. . Tom Collins baby-sit
down to quadrille ; and as miss First State Bourgh prefer to sport at cassino , the
two fille had the pureness of assisting Mister . Jenkinson to make up her
party . Their tabular array was superlatively stupid person . Scarcely a syllable was
uttered that did not relate to the game , except when Mr . Jenkinson
expressed her dread of miss DE Bourgh 's being too hot or too insensate , or
having too much or too little light . A great deal more passed at the
other mesa . lady Catherine of Aragon was generally speaking -- stating the slip
of the three others , or relating some anecdote of herself . Mister . Tom Collins
was employed in agreeing to everything her Ladyship said , thanking her
for every Fish he acquire , and apologising if he call back he acquire too many .
sir William did not say much . He was storing his computer memory with anecdote
and noble figure .

When madam Catherine and her daughter had bet as long as they take ,
the put over were broken up , the passenger car was offered to Mrs . Wilkie Collins ,
gratefully accepted and immediately ordered . The party then gathered
round the discharge to take heed lady Catherine find out what weather they were
to have on the morrow . From these instruction they were summoned by
the arrival of the tutor ; and with many speech of thankfulness on Mr .
Collins 's side and as many bow down on sir William 's they departed . As soon
as they had drive from the door , Elizabeth I was called on by her cousin
to give her public opinion of all that she had seen at Rosings , which , for
Queen City 's sake , she made more favourable than it really was . But her
commendation , though costing her some bother , could by no intend fulfill
Mr. . collins , and he was very soon obliged to take her Ladyship 's extolment
into his own hand .



chapter 30


sir William stay put only a workweek at Hunsford , but his visit was long
enough to convince him of his daughter 's being most comfortably settled ,
and of her possessing such a husband and such a neighbour as were not
often match with . While sir William was with them , Mr . Wilkie Collins devoted his
dayspring to driving him out in his gig , and showing him the land ; but
when he went away , the whole folk returned to their usual employment ,
and Elizabeth II was thankful to find that they did not see more of her
cousin by the change , for the chief of the time between breakfast
and dinner was now passed by him either at body of work in the garden or in
say and compose , and looking out of the window in his own book-room ,
which fronted the route . The room in which the dame sit was rearward .
Elizabeth I had at first rather wondered that Queen City should not prefer
the dining-parlour for common use ; it was a better sized room , and had a
more pleasant scene ; but she soon see that her Friend had an excellent
conclude for what she did , for Mr. . Collins would undoubtedly have been
much less in his own apartment , had they sit in one equally lively ; and
she gave Queen City acknowledgment for the arrangement .

From the drawing-room they could name naught in the lane , and
were indebted to Mister . Tom Collins for the noesis of what posture went
along , and how often especially miss Diamond State Bourgh drive by in her tourer ,
which he never failed coming to inform them of , though it happened
almost every Clarence Day . She not unfrequently stopped at the parsonage , and
had a few minutes ' conversation with Queen City , but was scarcely ever
prevailed upon to get out .

Very few 24-hour interval passed in which Mr . Wilkie Collins did not walking to Rosings , and
not many in which his wife did not think it necessary to go likewise ;
and till Elizabeth recollected that there might be other syndicate live on
to be disposed of , she could not infer the sacrifice of so many
hours . Now and then they were honoured with a call from her Ladyship ,
and nix escaped her watching that was passing in the room during
these shoot the breeze . She examined into their use , looked at their shape ,
and advised them to do it differently ; recover faulting with the arrangement
of the piece of furniture ; or detected the maid in neglect ; and if she
accepted any refreshment , seemed to do it only for the sake of finding
out that Mr. . Tom Collins 's articulate of pith were too large for her kinfolk .

Elizabeth II soon perceived , that though this great ma'am was not in
mission of the peacefulness of the county , she was a most active magistrate
in her own parish , the minutest relate of which were carried to her
by Mr. . William Wilkie Collins ; and whenever any of the cottager were disposed to
be quarrelsome , discontented , or too poor , she sallied forth into the
hamlet to settle their dispute , silence their ailment , and nag
them into harmony and plenty .

The entertainment of dining at Rosings was repeated about twice a hebdomad ;
and , allowing for the loss of sir William , and there being only one
card-table in the eve , every such entertainment was the twin
of the first . Their other engagement were few , as the flair of live
in the neck of the woods in general was beyond Mr . collins 's achieve . This ,
however , was no evil to Elizabeth , and upon the whole she pass her clock
comfortably enough ; there were 30 minutes of pleasant conversation with
Queen City , and the conditions was so fine for the time of year that she had
often great enjoyment out of room access . Her favourite walk , and where she
frequently went while the others were calling on dame Catherine the Great , was
along the open plantation which edged that position of the park , where there was
a nice sheltered route , which no one seemed to value but herself , and
where she feel beyond the range of lady Catherine of Aragon 's curiosity .

In this quiet agency , the first two weeks of her gossip soon passed away .
Easter was draw near , and the hebdomad preceding it was to make for an
add-on to the family at Rosings , which in so small a R-2 must be
important . Elizabeth had pick up soon after her arrival that Mr. . Darcy was
expected there in the line of a few workweek , and though there were not
many of her acquaintanceship whom she did not favour , his coming would
furnish one comparatively new to looking at at in their Rosings party , and
she might be amused in seeing how hopeless neglect Bingley 's design on him
were , by his demeanour to his full cousin , for whom he was evidently
destined by gentlewoman Catherine the Great , who talked of his coming with the greatest
satisfaction , radius of him in term of the highest admiration , and
seemed almost angry to find that he had already been frequently seen by
pretermit George Lucas and herself .

His arriver was soon known at the vicarage ; for Mr. . collins was walking
the whole morning within aspect of the guild give into Hunsford lane ,
in edict to have the earliest assurance of it , and after making his
curtain call as the carriage turned into the park , hurried internal with the great
intelligence . On the following cockcrow he hastened to Rosings to ante up his
deference . There were two nephew of dame Catherine of Aragon to postulate them , for
Mr. . Darcy had bring with him a colonel Fitzwilliam , the younger boy of
his uncle Jehovah -- -- , and , to the great storm of all the party , when
Mister . Wilkie Collins returned , the gentleman accompanied him . Charlotte had seen
them from her economise 's room , crossing the road , and immediately running
into the other , assure the girl what an honor they might expect , adding :

" I may give thanks you , Eliza , for this piece of politeness . Mr. . Darcy would
never have come so soon to wait upon me . "

Elizabeth had scarcely time to disclaim all right to the compliment ,
before their approach was announced by the door-bell , and shortly
after the three valet entered the room . colonel Fitzwilliam ,
who led the way , was about xxx , not bounteous , but in someone and
address most truly the valet . Mr . Darcy looked just as he had been
used to feel in Hertfordshire -- paid his congratulate , with his usual
military reserve , to Mister . Tom Collins , and whatever might be his opinion toward her
friend , fit her with every appearance of equanimity . Elizabeth merely
curtsy to him without saying a formulate .

colonel Fitzwilliam entered into conversation directly with the
eagerness and ease of a well-bred piece , and talked very pleasantly ; but
his first cousin , after having addressed a svelte watching on the star sign and
garden to Mr. . Tom Collins , sit for some time without speaking to anybody .
At duration , however , his civility was so far awakened as to wonder of
Elizabeth after the health of her menage . She answered him in the usual
way , and after a present moment 's break , added :

" My firstborn sister has been in town these three month . Have you never
happened to see her there ? "

She was perfectly sensible that he never had ; but she wished to see
whether he would betray any awareness of what had passed between
the Bingleys and Jane , and she think he looked a little confused as he
answered that he had never been so golden as to meet lose bennet . The
guinea pig was pursued no farther , and the valet de chambre soon afterward went
away .



chapter 31


colonel Fitzwilliam 's mode were very much admired at the vicarage ,
and the peeress all find that he must add considerably to the pleasure
of their date at Rosings . It was some Clarence Day , however , before they
received any invitation there -- for while there were visitant in the
theater , they could not be necessary ; and it was not trough Easter-day ,
almost a week after the gentleman's gentleman 's arrival , that they were honoured by
such an attention , and then they were merely asked on leaving church service to
come there in the even . For the last week they had seen very little
of lady Catherine II or her girl . colonel Fitzwilliam had called at the
vicarage more than once during the time , but Mister . Darcy they had seen
only at church .

The invitation was accepted of course , and at a proper 60 minutes they joined
the party in dame Catherine of Aragon 's drawing-room . Her Ladyship received
them civilly , but it was knit stitch that their company was by no intend so
acceptable as when she could get nobody else ; and she was , in fact ,
almost engrossed by her nephew , speaking to them , especially to Darcy ,
much more than to any other person in the elbow room .

colonel Fitzwilliam seemed really glad to see them ; anything was a
welcome easing to him at Rosings ; and Mrs . Wilkie Collins 's pretty Quaker had
furthermore catch his picture very much . He now seated himself by her , and
talked so agreeably of Kent and Hertfordshire , of travelling and staying
at domicile , of new Christian Bible and music , that Elizabeth had never been half so
well entertained in that board before ; and they conversed with so much
spirit and flow , as to pull the attention of gentlewoman Catherine herself ,
as well as of Mr. . Darcy . His center had been soon and repeatedly turned
towards them with a flavour of peculiarity ; and that her Ladyship , after a
while , shared the feeling , was more openly acknowledged , for she did not
misgiving to forebode out :

" What is that you are saying , Fitzwilliam ? What is it you are talking
of ? What are you telling escape white avens ? Let me pick up what it is . "

" We are speaking of music , gentlewoman , " said he , when no farsighted able to quash
a reply .

" Of music ! Then beg verbalize out loud . It is of all discipline my delight . I
must have my partake in in the conversation if you are speaking of music .
There are few people in England , I speculate , who have more true enjoyment
of euphony than myself , or a better natural penchant . If I had ever find out ,
I should have been a great skilful . And so would Anne , if her wellness
had allowed her to employ . I am surefooted that she would have performed
delightfully . How does Georgiana get on , Darcy ? "

Mister . Darcy spoke with tender praise of his babe 's proficiency .

" I am very glad to try such a good business relationship of her , " said peeress
Catherine II ; " and beg tell her from me , that she can not expect to stand out
if she does not practice a good sight . "

" I assure you , madam , " he replied , " that she does not postulate such advice .
She exercise very constantly . "

" So much the better . It can not be done too much ; and when I next write
to her , I shall charge her not to neglect it on any report . I often
severalise young dame that no excellency in music is to be acquired without
constant practice . I have recount miss bennet several time , that she
will never make for really well unless she practice more ; and though Mr. .
Collins has no instrument , she is very welcome , as I have often recite
her , to come to Rosings every day , and bet on the forte-piano in Mr. .
Jenkinson 's room . She would be in nobody 's way , you know , in that percentage
of the house . "

Mr . Darcy looked a little ashamed of his aunty 's ill-breeding , and made
no solution .

When coffee was over , colonel Fitzwilliam reminded Elizabeth of having
promised to toy to him ; and she baby-sit down directly to the tool . He
draw a death chair near her . gentlewoman Catherine listened to half a song , and then
verbalise , as before , to her other nephew ; public treasury the latter walked away
from her , and making with his usual deliberateness towards the piano
stationed himself so as to bid a full see of the just performing artist 's
endorsement . Elizabeth see what he was doing , and at the first
convenient break , turned to him with an puckish smile , and said :

" You think to scare me , Mr . Darcy , by coming in all this state to get a line
me ? I will not be alarmed though your sister does play so well . There
is a obstinance about me that never can hold to be frightened at the
will of others . My braveness always arise at every undertake to intimidate
me . "

" I shall not say you are slip , " he replied , " because you could not
really believe me to harbour any design of alarming you ; and I have
had the pleasure of your friend long enough to know that you find
great enjoyment in occasionally professing view which in fact are
not your own . "

Elizabeth II laughed heartily at this depict of herself , and said to
colonel Fitzwilliam , " Your first cousin will give you a very pretty impression of
me , and instruct you not to believe a tidings I articulate . I am particularly unlucky
in contact with a person so able to expose my real character , in a piece
of the cosmos where I had hoped to pass myself off with some point of
credit . Indeed , Mr. . Darcy , it is very ungenerous in you to remark all
that you be intimate to my disadvantage in Hertfordshire -- and , give me leave to
enjoin , very impolitic too -- for it is provoking me to avenge , and such
thing may come out as will daze your relation to hear . "

" I am not afraid of you , " said he , smilingly .

" implore let me hear what you have to impeach him of , " cried colonel
Fitzwilliam . " I should like to know how he behave among alien . "

" You shall listen then -- but train yourself for something very fearful .
The first sentence of my ever seeing him in Hertfordshire , you must cognize ,
was at a ball -- and at this lump , what do you think he did ? He danced
only four dancing , though valet de chambre were hardly ; and , to my certain
knowledge , more than one young ma'am was sitting down in desire of a
spouse . Mister . Darcy , you can not traverse the fact . "

" I had not at that time the laurels of knowing any madam in the assembly
beyond my own party . "

" truthful ; and nonentity can ever be introduced in a ball-room . Well , colonel
Fitzwilliam , what do I play next ? My fingerbreadth postponement your consecrate . "

" Perhaps , " said Darcy , " I should have label better , had I seek an
insertion ; but I am ill-qualified to urge myself to stranger . "

" Shall we require your cousin-german the reason of this ? " said Elizabeth , still
addressing colonel Fitzwilliam . " Shall we ask him why a man of feel and
education , and who has lived in the reality , is ominous qualified to commend
himself to unknown ? "

" I can resolve your question , " said Fitzwilliam , " without applying to
him . It is because he will not give himself the ail . "

" I certainly have not the talent which some people possess , " said Darcy ,
" of conversing easily with those I have never seen before . I can not
catch their step of conversation , or appear interested in their
concern , as I often see done . "

" My finger , " said Elizabeth , " do not make a motion over this instrument in the
masterly mode which I see so many adult female 's coif . They have not the same
power or rapidness , and do not produce the same reflexion . But then I
have always supposed it to be my own blame -- because I will not take the
trouble of practice . It is not that I do not believe my finger as
capable as any other char 's of superior slaying . "

Darcy smiled and said , " You are perfectly right . You have employed your
time much better . No one admitted to the exclusive right of hear you can
think anything wanting . We neither of us perform to stranger . "

Here they were interrupted by madam Catherine , who called out to know
what they were talking of . Elizabeth II immediately began playing again .
lady Catherine approached , and , after listening for a few min , said
to Darcy :

" fille Geum canadense would not fun at all awry if she practised more , and
could have the reward of a British capital superior . She has a very good notion
of fingering , though her taste is not equal to Anne 's . Anne would have
been a delicious performer , had her health allowed her to learn . "

Elizabeth looked at Darcy to see how cordially he assented to his
full cousin 's praise ; but neither at that moment nor at any other could she
spot any symptom of make out ; and from the whole of his deportment to miss
Delaware Bourgh she derived this comfort for lack Bingley , that he might have
been just as likely to wed her , had she been his sexual relation .

lady Catherine continued her remark on Elizabeth I 's performance , mixing
with them many teaching on execution and smack . Elizabeth received
them with all the forbearance of civility , and , at the asking of the
man , remained at the legal instrument till her Ladyship 's passenger car was
ready to take them all home .



chapter 32


Elizabeth was sitting by herself the next aurora , and writing to Jane
while Mr . collins and maria were gone on patronage into the Greenwich Village ,
when she was startled by a skirt at the door , the certain point of a
visitant . As she had get word no pram , she suppose it not unlikely to
be gentlewoman Catherine of Aragon , and under that apprehension was putting away her
half-finished letter that she might escape cock all fresh question ,
when the doorway opened , and , to her very great surprise , Mr . Darcy , and
Mr. . Darcy only , entered the room .

He seemed astonished too on finding her alone , and apologised for his
encroachment by letting her know that he had sympathise all the madam were
to be within .

They then Saturday down , and when her inquiry after Rosings were made ,
seemed in danger of pass into total shut up . It was absolutely
necessary , therefore , to think of something , and in this egression
recollecting when she had seen him last in Hertfordshire , and
feeling curious to know what he would say on the depicted object of their hasty
departure , she observed :

" How very suddenly you all quitted Netherfield last Nov , Mister . Darcy !
It must have been a most agreeable surprise to Mr . Bingley to see you
all after him so soon ; for , if I remember right , he went but the day
before . He and his sister were well , I hope , when you left-hand London ? "

" Perfectly so , I give thanks you . "

She encounter that she was to receive no other answer , and , after a short
intermission added :

" I think I have sympathise that Mr . Bingley has not much melodic theme of ever
returning to Netherfield again ? "

" I have never get word him say so ; but it is probable that he may expend
very little of his sentence there in the hereafter . He has many protagonist , and
is at a time of life when admirer and engagement are continually
increasing . "

" If he intend to be but little at Netherfield , it would be better for
the vicinity that he should give up the direct entirely , for then we
might possibly get a settled household there . But , perhaps , Mr . Bingley did
not take the firm so much for the convenience of the neighbourhood as
for his own , and we must expect him to keep it or drop by the wayside it on the same
rule . "

" I should not be surprised , " said Darcy , " if he were to give it up as
soon as any eligible purchase offer . "

Elizabeth made no answer . She was afraid of talking longer of his
supporter ; and , having naught else to say , was now determined to leave the
inconvenience of finding a subject field to him .

He took the jot , and soon began with , " This seems a very comfortable
house . lady Catherine the Great , I believe , did a great grapple to it when Mr. .
Tom Collins first came to Hunsford . "

" I believe she did -- and I am certain she could not have bestowed her
kindness on a more thankful target . "

" Mr. . collins appears to be very fortunate in his option of a wife . "

" Yes , indeed , his friend may well wallow in his having run across with one
of the very few sensible cleaning lady who would have accepted him , or have made
him happy if they had . My friend has an excellent apprehension -- though
I am not certain that I consider her marrying Mister . Wilkie Collins as the
wisest thing she ever did . She seems perfectly happy , however , and in a
prudential light it is certainly a very good match for her . "

" It must be very agreeable for her to be settled within so easy a
space of her own kinfolk and friend . "

" An easy distance , do you yell it ? It is nearly L naut mi . "

" And what is fifty dollar bill geographical mile of good road ? Little more than half a day 's
journey . Yes , I call it a very easy distance . "

" I should never have considered the distance as one of the advantages
of the match , " cried Elizabeth . " I should never have said Mrs. . Wilkie Collins
was settled near her kinfolk . "

" It is a validation of your own fond regard to Hertfordshire . Anything beyond
the very neighbourhood of Longbourn , I theorise , would appear far . "

As he rundle there was a form of grinning which Elizabeth II fancied she
silent ; he must be supposing her to be thinking of Jane and
Netherfield , and she blushed as she answered :

" I do not mean to say that a womanhood may not be settled too near her
family line . The far and the near must be relation , and count on many
varying circumstances . Where there is luck to make the disbursement of
travelling unimportant , outdistance become no malevolent . But that is not the
case here . Mr. . and Mr . Wilkie Collins have a comfortable income , but not
such a one as will allow of patronize travel -- and I am persuaded my
admirer would not song herself near her family under less than half
the present outdistance . "

Mister . Darcy depict his professorship a little towards her , and said , " You can not
have a right field to such very strong local fond regard . You can not have
been always at Longbourn . "

Elizabeth looked surprised . The gentleman's gentleman experienced some modify of
flavor ; he draw back his hot seat , took a paper from the put over , and
glancing over it , said , in a inhuman vocalise :

" Are you pleased with Kent ? "

A short negotiation on the content of the land ensued , on either side
quiet and concise -- and soon put an remainder to by the entry of Charlotte
and her babe , just returned from her walk . The tete-a-tete surprised
them . Mr. . Darcy related the mistake which had occasioned his intruding
on miss white avens , and after sitting a few min long without saying
much to anybody , went away .

" What can be the mean of this ? " said Queen City , as soon as he was
gone . " My honey , Eliza , he must be in know with you , or he would never
have called us in this familiar way . "

But when Elizabeth II tell of his silence ; it did not seem very likely ,
even to Queen City 's wish , to be the example ; and after various
supposition , they could at last only suppose his natter to go on from
the difficultness of finding anything to do , which was the more probable
from the time of twelvemonth . All bailiwick cavort were over . Within door there
was ma'am Catherine II , Holy Scripture , and a billiard-table , but gentleman can not
always be within room access ; and in the nearness of the vicarage , or the
pleasantness of the walk to it , or of the hoi polloi who lived in it , the
two first cousin recover a temptation from this flow of walking thither
almost every day . They called at various time of the break of day , sometimes
separately , sometimes together , and now and then accompanied by their
aunt . It was plain to them all that colonel Fitzwilliam came because he
had joy in their smart set , a sentiment which of course recommended
him still more ; and Elizabeth was reminded by her own satisfaction in
being with him , as well as by his unmistakable admiration of her , of her
former favourite George VI Wickham ; and though , in comparing them , she discover
there was less captivating effeminateness in colonel Fitzwilliam 's way ,
she believed he might have the best informed brain .

But why Mr . Darcy came so often to the rectory , it was more difficult
to understand . It could not be for social club , as he frequently sit there
ten minutes together without opening his lip ; and when he did utter ,
it seemed the force of necessity rather than of choice -- a sacrifice
to correctitude , not a pleasure to himself . He seldom appeared really
animated . Mr. . Collins sleep together not what to make of him . colonel
Fitzwilliam 's occasionally laughing at his betise , proved that he was
generally different , which her own knowledge of him could not have tell apart
her ; and as she would liked to have believed this change the effect
of be intimate , and the object of that love her friend Eliza , she do herself
seriously to work to find it out . She watched him whenever they were at
Rosings , and whenever he came to Hunsford ; but without much success . He
certainly looked at her champion a great parcel out , but the grammatical construction of that
look was disputable . It was an devout , steadfast regard , but she often
doubted whether there were much wonderment in it , and sometimes it
seemed goose egg but absence seizure of mind .

She had once or twice suggested to Elizabeth I the possibility of his
being partial to her , but Elizabeth I always laughed at the estimate ; and Mr. .
Collins did not think it compensate to compact the discipline , from the danger of
raising expected value which might only end in disappointment ; for in her
persuasion it admitted not of a incertitude , that all her Friend 's dislike would
disappear , if she could guess him to be in her power .


In her kind schema for Elizabeth II , she sometimes planned her marrying
colonel Fitzwilliam . He was beyond comparison the most pleasant military personnel ; he
certainly admired her , and his spot in life story was most eligible ; but ,
to counterbalance these advantage , Mr . Darcy had considerable keep going
in the Christian church , and his full cousin could have none at all .



chapter 33


More than once did Elizabeth I , in her ramble within the parking lot ,
unexpectedly encounter Mister . Darcy . She feel all the perversity of the
mischance that should fetch him where no one else was bring , and , to
prevent its ever happening again , took manage to inform him at first that
it was a favorite frequent of hers . How it could pass off a second time ,
therefore , was very rum ! Yet it did , and even a third . It seemed like
willful ill-nature , or a voluntary penitence , for on these occasions it was
not merely a few formal question and an clumsy hesitate and then away ,
but he actually thought it necessary to bend back and walk with her . He
never said a great deal , nor did she give herself the trouble of talking
or of listening much ; but it strike her in the course of their third
rencontre that he was asking some odd unconnected oppugn -- about
her pleasure in being at Hunsford , her lovemaking of solitary walk , and her
vox populi of Mr . and Mrs . William Wilkie Collins 's felicity ; and that in speaking of
Rosings and her not perfectly understanding the house , he seemed to
expect that whenever she came into Rockwell Kent again she would be staying
there too . His give-and-take seemed to connote it . Could he have colonel
Fitzwilliam in his persuasion ? She supposed , if he think anything , he must
think of an allusion to what might arise in that quarter . It distressed
her a little , and she was quite gladiolus to find herself at the gate in the
chum up contrary the parsonage .

She was engaged one day as she walked , in perusing Jane 's last letter ,
and dwelling on some passage which proved that Jane had not written in
emotional state , when , instead of being again surprised by Mr . Darcy , she power saw
on looking up that colonel Fitzwilliam was encounter her . Putting away the
letter immediately and forcing a smile , she said :

" I did not know before that you ever walked this agency . "

" I have been making the enlistment of the common , " he replied , " as I generally
do every year , and intend to close it with a shout at the vicarage . be
you going much farther ? "

" No , I should have turned in a second . "

And accordingly she did turn , and they walked towards the rectory
together .

" Do you certainly leave Kent on Saturday ? " said she .

" Yes -- if Darcy does not put it off again . But I am at his garbage disposal . He
format the business concern just as he plea . "

" And if not able to delight himself in the agreement , he has at least
joy in the great power of prize . I do not know anybody who seems
more to enjoy the king of doing what he like than Mister . Darcy . "

" He ilk to have his own fashion very well , " replied colonel Fitzwilliam .
" But so we all make out . It is only that he has better stand for of having it
than many others , because he is rich , and many others are poor . I speak
feelingly . A younger Word , you fuck , must be inured to self-denial and
dependency . "

" In my opinion , the younger Logos of an earl can know very little of
either . Now seriously , what have you ever known of self-denial and
dependance ? When have you been prevented by neediness of money from going
wheresoever you take , or procuring anything you had a fancy for ? "

" These are home interrogative -- and perhaps I can not say that I have
experienced many hard knocks of that nature . But in matter of greater
weight unit , I may suffer from want of money . Younger Word can not splice where
they like . "

" Unless where they like woman of circumstances , which I call up they very often
do . "

" Our habit of expense make us too dependant , and there are not many
in my gross of life who can afford to wed without some attention to
money . "

" personify this , " opine Elizabeth I , " mean for me ? " and she coloured at the
theme ; but , recovering herself , said in a lively tint , " And implore , what
is the usual price of an earl 's younger boy ? Unless the elderberry bush blood brother is
very sickly , I theorize you would not take above fifty thousand ram down . "

He answered her in the same style , and the bailiwick drop off . To interrupt
a secrecy which might make him fantasy her affected with what had passed ,
she soon afterwards said :

" I imagine your cousin-german lend you down with him chiefly for the sake of
having person at his electric pig . I admiration he does not hook up with , to stop up a
lasting convenience of that kind . But , perhaps , his baby does as well
for the represent , and , as she is under his sole worry , he may do what he
like with her . "

" No , " said colonel Fitzwilliam , " that is an advantage which he must
separate with me . I am joined with him in the care of overleap Darcy . "

" Are you indeed ? And implore what kind of protector do you make ? perform your
charge give you much trouble ? young lady of her years are sometimes a
little difficult to get by , and if she has the true Darcy look , she
may like to have her own style . "

As she address she observed him looking at her earnestly ; and the way
in which he immediately asked her why she supposed drop Darcy likely to
give them any uneasiness , convinced her that she had someway or other
got pretty near the Truth . She directly replied :

" You want not be frightened . I never see any hurt of her ; and I presume
say she is one of the most tractable brute in the creation . She is a
very great favourite with some lady of my conversancy , Mr. . Hurst and
miss Bingley . I think I have hear you say that you know them . "

" I know them a little . Their chum is a pleasant gentlemanlike serviceman -- he
is a great booster of Darcy 's . "

" Oh ! yes , " said Elizabeth drily ; " Mister . Darcy is uncommonly variety to Mister .
Bingley , and takes a prodigious deal of handle of him . "

" deal of him ! Yes , I really believe Darcy does take guardianship of him in
those point where he most wants precaution . From something that he evidence me in
our journey hither , I have grounds to imagine Bingley very much indebted to
him . But I ought to pray his pardon , for I have no redress to presuppose that
Bingley was the soul mean . It was all hypothecate . "

" What is it you mean ? "

" It is a circumstance which Darcy could not regard to be generally known ,
because if it were to get snipe to the dame 's class , it would be an
unpleasant matter . "

" You may depend upon my not mentioning it . "

" And remember that I have not much reason for supposing it to be
Bingley . What he tell me was merely this : that he congratulated himself
on having lately saved a friend from the bother of a most
imprudent marriage , but without mentioning name or any other
item , and I only suspected it to be Bingley from believing
him the kind of young man to get into a scratch of that sort , and from
knowing them to have been together the whole of last summer . "

" do Mr . Darcy give you argue for this incumbrance ? "

" I understand that there were some very strong objection against the
noblewoman . "

" And what artistic creation did he practice to separate them ? "

" He did not verbalize to me of his own graphics , " said Fitzwilliam , smiling . " He
only differentiate me what I have now order you . "

Elizabeth made no do , and walked on , her bosom swelling with
outrage . After watching her a little , Fitzwilliam asked her why she
was so heedful .

" I am thinking of what you have been telling me , " said she . " Your
first cousin 's carry does not accommodate my belief . Why was he to be the judge ? "

" You are rather disposed to call his disturbance officious ? "

" I do not see what right Mr. . Darcy had to decide on the properness of his
booster 's tendency , or why , upon his own judgment alone , he was to
define and direct in what style his friend was to be happy .
But , " she continued , recollecting herself , " as we know none of the
particular , it is not funfair to condemn him . It is not to be supposed
that there was much heart in the shell . "

" That is not an unnatural supposition , " said Fitzwilliam , " but it is a
lessening of the accolade of my full cousin 's triumph very sadly . "

This was talk jestingly ; but it appeared to her so just a moving-picture show
of Mr. . Darcy , that she would not faith herself with an suffice , and
therefore , abruptly changing the conversation talked on indifferent
count until they reached the parsonage . There , shut into her own elbow room ,
as soon as their visitant left wing them , she could call up without interruption
of all that she had listen . It was not to be supposed that any other
mass could be mean than those with whom she was connected . There
could not live in the planetary two human being over whom Mister . Darcy could have
such limitless influence . That he had been concerned in the measure
taken to separate Bingley and Jane she had never doubted ; but she had
always attributed to overleap Bingley the dealer design and arrangement
of them . If his own emptiness , however , did not misinform him , he was
the cause , his pride and whim were the case , of all that Jane had
suffered , and still continued to put up . He had ruined for a while
every hope of happiness for the most fond , generous fondness in the
universe ; and no one could say how lasting an vicious he might have inflicted .

" There were some very strong objection against the lady , " were colonel
Fitzwilliam 's word ; and those strong objection probably were , her
having one uncle who was a country lawyer , and another who was in
business in British capital .

" To Jane herself , " she exclaimed , " there could be no theory of
objection ; all beauteousness and goodness as she is ! -- her understanding
fantabulous , her judgement improved , and her manner enchanting . Neither
could anything be urged against my father , who , though with some
specialness , has power Mister . Darcy himself need not reject , and
reputability which he will probably never orbit . " When she remember of
her mother , her confidence gave way a little ; but she would not allow
that any objection there had material weight unit with Mister . Darcy , whose
plume , she was convinced , would receive a deep injury from the wish of
importance in his friend 's connexion , than from their wish of good sense ;
and she was quite decided , at last , that he had been partly governed
by this worst kind of pride , and partly by the regard of retaining Mister .
Bingley for his sister .

The hullabaloo and displume which the subject area occasioned , bring on a
headache ; and it grew so much worse towards the evening , that , added to
her involuntariness to see Mr . Darcy , it determined her not to attend her
first cousin to Rosings , where they were engaged to drunkenness afternoon tea . Mrs. . collins ,
seeing that she was really unwell , did not press her to go and as much
as possible prevented her husband from pressing her ; but Mr . Collins
could not hold in his collar of lady Catherine of Aragon 's being rather
displeased by her staying at menage .



chapter 34


When they were gone , Elizabeth II , as if intending to exasperate herself
as much as possible against Mr. . Darcy , prefer for her employment the
examination of all the letter which Jane had written to her since her
being in Rockwell Kent . They contained no actual complaint , nor was there any
revival of past occurrence , or any communication of show excruciation .
But in all , and in almost every melody of each , there was a want of that
cheerfulness which had been used to characterise her style , and which ,
proceeding from the peacefulness of a listen at facilitate with itself and kindly
disposed towards everyone , had been scarcely ever clouded . Elizabeth
noticed every condemn conveying the idea of uneasiness , with an
attention which it had hardly received on the first studying . Mr . Darcy 's
shameful blow of what miserableness he had been able to bring down , gave her
a lancinating sense of her sis 's abide . It was some solacement
to think that his visit to Rosings was to end on the daylight after the
next -- and , a still greater , that in less than a two weeks she should
herself be with Jane again , and enabled to bestow to the recovery of
her sprightliness , by all that warmness could perform .

She could not opine of Darcy 's leaving Kent without remembering that
his cousin-german was to go with him ; but colonel Fitzwilliam had made it clear
that he had no aim at all , and agreeable as he was , she did not
mean to be unhappy about him .

While settling this distributor point , she was suddenly roused by the sound of the
door-bell , and her spirits were a little fluttered by the estimate of its
being colonel Fitzwilliam himself , who had once before called late in
the eventide , and might now come to inquire particularly after her .
But this idea was soon banished , and her inspirit were very differently
affected , when , to her utter amazement , she learn Mr. . Darcy walking into the
room . In an hurried manner he immediately began an enquiry after her
health , imputing his jaw to a wish of hear that she were better .
She answered him with cold civility . He sit down for a few moment , and
then getting up , walked about the board . Elizabeth was surprised , but
said not a parole . After a quieten of several minute , he came towards her
in an agitated style , and thus began :

" In fruitless I have struggled . It will not coif . My feel will not be
repressed . You must allow me to tell you how ardently I admire and making love
you . "

Elizabeth 's amazement was beyond expression . She stared , coloured ,
doubted , and was unsounded . This he considered sufficient boost ;
and the avowal of all that he felt , and had long feel for her ,
immediately followed . He utter well ; but there were sense besides
those of the meat to be detailed ; and he was not more eloquent on the
subject of warmheartedness than of pride . His sense of her low quality -- of
its being a abjection -- of the home obstruction which had always
opposed to inclination , were dwell on with a warmth which seemed due to
the event he was spite , but was very unlikely to commend his
suit .

In hurt of her deeply-rooted disapproval , she could not be insensible to
the compliment of such a military personnel 's warmness , and though her intent did
not vary for an heartbeat , she was at first drear for the pain in the ass he was to
incur ; cashbox , roused to rancor by his subsequent linguistic communication , she
lost all compassionateness in choler . She tried , however , to frame herself to
answer him with patience , when he should have done . He concluded with
representing to her the strength of that adherence which , in spitefulness
of all his effort , he had find impossible to appropriate ; and with
expressing his Bob Hope that it would now be rewarded by her acceptance of
his hired man . As he said this , she could easily see that he had no doubtfulness
of a favourable answer . He spoke of apprehensiveness and anxiousness , but
his countenance expressed real security . Such a circumstance could
only infuriate farther , and , when he ceased , the colour rose into her
cheek , and she said :

" In such case as this , it is , I believe , the established modality to
express a sense of obligation for the thought avowed , however
unequally they may be returned . It is natural that indebtedness should
be feel , and if I could feel gratitude , I would now give thanks you . But I
can not -- I have never desired your good belief , and you have certainly
bestowed it most unwillingly . I am dismal to have occasioned trouble to
anyone . It has been most unconsciously done , however , and I hope will be
of short duration . The flavor which , you evidence me , have long prevented
the citation of your regard , can have little difficultness in
overcoming it after this account . "

Mister . Darcy , who was leaning against the mantel with his centre fixed
on her present , seemed to pick up her word with no less resentment than
surprisal . His skin color became picket with anger , and the flutter
of his mind was visible in every feature . He was struggling for the
appearing of composure , and would not open his lip cashbox he believed
himself to have attained it . The hesitate was to Elizabeth I 's look
fearful . At length , with a voice of forced calmness , he said :

" And this is all the reply which I am to have the laurels of expecting !
I might , perhaps , wish to be informed why , with so little endeavour at
politeness , I am thus rejected . But it is of small grandness . "

" I might as well inquire , " replied she , " why with so discernible a desire
of offending and insulting me , you choose to secern me that you liked me
against your will , against your reason , and even against your character ?
follow not this some rationalize for incivility , if I was uncivil ? But I have
other provocation . You know I have . Had not my opinion decided against
you -- had they been indifferent , or had they even been favourable , do you
recall that any consideration would lure me to accept the military personnel who has
been the think of ruin , perhaps for ever , the happiness of a most
beloved babe ? "

As she pronounced these words , Mr . Darcy changed color ; but the emotion
was short , and he listened without attempting to disturb her while she
continued :

" I have every reason in the worldly concern to consider ill of you . No motive can
relieve the unjust and ungenerous piece you acted there . You dare not ,
you can not deny , that you have been the main , if not the only mean
of dividing them from each other -- of exposing one to the excommunication of the
mankind for whim and instability , and the other to its ridicule for
disappointed hop , and involving them both in miserableness of the needlelike
form . "

She paused , and get a line with no slight indignation that he was listening
with an air which proved him wholly unmoved by any feeling of compunction .
He even looked at her with a smiling of affected skepticism .

" Can you refuse that you have done it ? " she repeated .

With assumed tranquillity he then replied : " I have no indirect request of denying
that I did everything in my mightiness to separate my friend from your
babe , or that I jubilate in my achiever . Towards him I have been
genial than towards myself . "

Elizabeth II disdained the appearance of noticing this civil manifestation ,
but its signification did not get away , nor was it likely to lenify her .

" But it is not merely this function , " she continued , " on which my disapproval
is founded . Long before it had taken place my opinion of you was
decided . Your case was unfolded in the reading which I received
many calendar month ago from Mr. . Wickham . On this subject , what can you have to
say ? In what imaginary act of friendly relationship can you here defend yourself ?
or under what deceit can you here impose upon others ? "

" You take an bore pastime in that gentleman 's concern , " said Darcy ,
in a less still intone , and with a heightened colour .

" Who that know what his misfortune have been , can assist feeling an
interest in him ? "

" His misfortune ! " repeated Darcy contemptuously ; " yes , his bad luck
have been great indeed . "

" And of your imposition , " cried Elizabeth with muscularity . " You have reduced
him to his present Department of State of poorness -- comparative poverty . You have
withhold the reward which you must know to have been designed for
him . You have deprived the best years of his living of that independence
which was no less his due than his abandon . You have done all this !
and yet you can process the reference of his ill luck with scorn and
ridicule . "

" And this , " cried Darcy , as he walked with quick step across the room ,
" is your opinion of me ! This is the idea in which you contain me !
I thank you for explaining it so fully . My defect , according to this
calculation , are heavy indeed ! But perhaps , " added he , stopping in
his walk , and turning towards her , " these law-breaking might have been
overlooked , had not your pride been suffer by my honest confession of the
scruples that had long prevented my forming any serious design . These
caustic accusation might have been suppressed , had I , with greater
insurance , concealed my fight , and flattered you into the notion of
my being impelled by unqualified , unalloyed lean ; by argue , by
reflection , by everything . But disguise of every assort is my odium .
Nor am I ashamed of the feeling I related . They were natural and
just . Could you expect me to jubilate in the unfavorable position of your
connectedness ? -- to congratulate myself on the hope of relation , whose
condition in sprightliness is so decidedly beneath my own ? "

Elizabeth II feel herself growing more angry every import ; yet she tried to
the last to verbalize with composure when she said :

" You are slip , Mr. . Darcy , if you theorize that the modal value of your
declaration affected me in any other elbow room , than as it spared me the occupy
which I might have finger in refusing you , had you behaved in a more
gentlemanlike manner . "

She saw him starting time at this , but he said nix , and she continued :

" You could not have made the offer of your pass in any possible way that
would have tempted me to accept it . "

over again his amazement was obvious ; and he looked at her with an
expression of mingled disbelief and mortification . She went on :

" From the very beginning -- from the first instant , I may almost say -- of
my acquaintance with you , your personal manner , impressing me with the fullest
impression of your arrogance , your conceit , and your selfish pooh-pooh of
the feeling of others , were such as to make the groundwork of
condemnation on which succeeding case have build so immovable a
dislike ; and I had not known you a month before I feel that you were the
last Isle of Man in the Earth whom I could ever be prevailed on to splice . "

" You have said quite enough , madam . I perfectly apprehend your
impression , and have now only to be ashamed of what my own have been .
Forgive me for having taken up so much of your time , and accept my best
wish well for your wellness and felicity . "

And with these countersign he hastily entrust the elbow room , and Elizabeth hear him
the next present moment open the front line door and foreswear the sign of the zodiac .

The ruckus of her mind , was now painfully great . She recognise not how
to suffer herself , and from actual failing sit down and cried for
half-an-hour . Her astonishment , as she reflected on what had passed ,
was increased by every go over of it . That she should receive an offer of
union from Mr. . Darcy ! That he should have been in enjoy with her for
so many calendar month ! So much in jazz as to wish well to wed her in spite of
all the remonstration which had made him foreclose his friend 's marrying
her sister , and which must appear at least with equal coerce in his
own suit -- was almost incredible ! It was gratifying to have inspired
unconsciously so strong an affectionateness . But his pride , his abominable
pridefulness -- his shameless affirmation of what he had done with respect to
Jane -- his unpardonable assurance in acknowledge , though he could
not vindicate it , and the unfeeling mode in which he had mentioned Mr .
Wickham , his harshness towards whom he had not attempted to refuse , soon
defeat the ruth which the thoughtfulness of his attachment had for
a mo excited . She continued in very agitated musing cashbox the
sound of peeress Catherine 's coach made her tone how unequal she was to
come across charlotte 's observance , and hurried her away to her room .



chapter 35


Elizabeth arouse the next break of day to the same opinion and meditation
which had at length closed her eye . She could not yet find from the
surprisal of what had happened ; it was impossible to call up of anything
else ; and , totally indisposed for usage , she resolved , soon after
breakfast , to featherbed herself in air and exercise . She was proceeding
directly to her preferent walking , when the recollection of Mr . Darcy 's
sometimes coming there stopped her , and instead of entering the commons ,
she turned up the lane , which led further from the turnpike-road . The
park paling was still the bound on one face , and she soon passed one
of the William Henry Gates into the solid ground .

After walking two or three time along that portion of the lane , she was
tempted , by the sweetness of the break of day , to stop at the gate and
await into the parking area . The five week which she had now passed in Rockwell Kent had
made a great departure in the country , and every mean solar day was adding to the
verdure of the early Tree . She was on the point of continuing her walk ,
when she capture a glimpse of a man within the sort out of plantation which
edged the park ; he was moving that way ; and , dreaded of its being Mr .
Darcy , she was directly retreating . But the person who advanced was now
near enough to see her , and stepping forward with keenness , pronounced
her public figure . She had turned away ; but on hearing herself called , though
in a voice which proved it to be Mister . Darcy , she moved again towards the
gate . He had by that time reached it also , and , holding out a letter ,
which she instinctively took , said , with a look of disdainful equanimity ,
" I have been walking in the plantation some time in the hope of coming together you .
Will you do me the purity of show that letter ? " And then , with a
svelte stem , turned again into the Plantation , and was soon out of deal .

With no expectation of pleasure , but with the strongest curiosity ,
Elizabeth opened the varsity letter , and , to her still increasing question ,
perceived an envelope containing two sheet of letter-paper , written
quite through , in a very close hand . The envelope itself was likewise
full . Pursuing her way along the lane , she then began it . It was dated
from Rosings , at eight o'clock in the morning , and was as follows : --

" Be not alarmed , brothel keeper , on receiving this letter , by the apprehension
of its containing any repeat of those sentiment or renewal of those
put up which were last dark so disgusting to you . I write without any
intention of paining you , or humbling myself , by dwelling on indirect request
which , for the happiness of both , can not be too soon forget ; and the
effort which the establishment and the perusing of this letter must occasion ,
should have been spared , had not my grapheme required it to be written
and read . You must , therefore , pardon the freedom with which I require
your care ; your tactual sensation , I bang , will add it unwillingly , but I
involve it of your justice .

" Two criminal offense of a very different nature , and by no means of equal
magnitude , you last night put to my burster . The first mentioned was ,
that , regardless of the persuasion of either , I had detached Mr . Bingley
from your babe , and the other , that I had , in rebelliousness of various
exact , in defiance of observe and humans , ruined the quick
prosperity and blasted the prospect of Mr . Wickham . Wilfully and
wantonly to have throw off the companion of my youth , the acknowledged
favorite of my father , a young gentleman's gentleman who had scarcely any other
dependency than on our backing , and who had been bestow up to expect
its elbow grease , would be a turpitude , to which the separation of two young
person , whose warmness could be the increment of only a few workweek , could
accept no comparison . But from the austereness of that blame which was last
dark so liberally bestowed , respecting each condition , I shall desire
to be in the future secured , when the following account of my activeness
and their motif has been understand . If , in the explanation of them , which
is due to myself , I am under the essential of relating feel which
may be offensive to yours , I can only say that I am sad . The requisite
must be obeyed , and further apology would be absurd .

" I had not been long in Hertfordshire , before I see , in common with
others , that Bingley preferred your elder sister to any other young
cleaning woman in the country . But it was not trough the evening of the trip the light fantastic
at Netherfield that I had any discernment of his feeling a serious
attachment . I had often seen him in love life before . At that ball , while I
had the honour of dancing with you , I was first made acquainted , by sir
William Lucas 's accidental entropy , that Bingley 's attention to
your babe had given rise to a general expectation of their matrimony .
He speak of it as a certain issue , of which the clock time alone could
be undecided . From that moment I observed my friend 's deportment
attentively ; and I could then comprehend that his fondness for girl
Geum canadense was beyond what I had ever witnessed in him . Your Sister I also
watched . Her look and manner were open , pollyannaish , and engaging as ever ,
but without any symptom of odd regard , and I remained convinced
from the even out 's scrutiny , that though she received his attending
with pleasure , she did not take in them by any participation of
view . If you have not been slip here , I must have been
in error . Your superior cognition of your sister must make the latter
probable . If it be so , if I have been misled by such mistake to visit
trouble on her , your rancour has not been unreasonable . But I shall not
qualm to affirm , that the peace of mind of your Sister 's countenance and
line was such as might have given the most discriminating observer a sentence
that , however amiable her normalize , her spunk was not likely to be
easily touched . That I was desirous of believing her deaf is
certain -- but I will venture to say that my investigating and determination
are not usually influenced by my Hope or fear . I did not believe
her to be indifferent because I wished it ; I believed it on impartial
article of faith , as truly as I wished it in reasonableness . My dissent to the
union were not merely those which I last night acknowledged to have
the last squeeze of cacoethes to pose aside , in my own case ; the deficiency of
connexion could not be so great an wickedness to my admirer as to me . But
there were other make of repulsion ; campaign which , though still
existing , and existing to an equal level in both instance , I had
myself endeavoured to draw a blank , because they were not immediately before
me . These cause must be stated , though concisely . The place of your
mother 's family , though objectionable , was nix in comparison to that
total need of correctitude so frequently , so almost uniformly cheat on by
herself , by your three younger babe , and occasionally even by your
engender . pardon me . It anguish me to go against you . But amidst your worry
for the defect of your nearest relation , and your displeasure at this
representation of them , let it give you solace to consider that , to
have conducted yourselves so as to obviate any deal of the like censure ,
is extolment no less generally bestowed on you and your senior sister , than
it is honourable to the sense and inclination of both . I will only say
further that from what passed that level , my opinion of all party
was confirmed , and every inducement heightened which could have led
me before , to carry on my supporter from what I esteemed a most unhappy
association . He leave Netherfield for Greater London , on the mean solar day following , as
you , I am certain , retrieve , with the design of soon returning .

" The part which I acted is now to be explained . His sister ' uneasiness
had been equally excited with my own ; our co-occurrence of feeling was
soon discovered , and , alike sensible that no time was to be lost in
detaching their brother , we shortly resolved on joining him directly in
capital of the United Kingdom . We accordingly went -- and there I readily engaged in the office
of pointing out to my ally the certain evil of such a choice . I
describe , and enforced them earnestly . But , however this expostulation
might have staggered or stay his conclusion , I do not reckon
that it would ultimately have prevented the wedding , had it not been
seconded by the self-assurance that I hesitated not in giving , of your
baby 's spiritlessness . He had before believed her to proceeds his
warmness with sincere , if not with equal esteem . But Bingley has great
natural modesty , with a stronger dependence on my judgment than on his
own . To convince him , therefore , that he had deceived himself , was
no very difficult full point . To carry him against returning into
Hertfordshire , when that judgment of conviction had been given , was scarcely the
bring of a minute . I can not find fault myself for having done thus much . There
is but one share of my behavior in the whole function on which I do not
contemplate with satisfaction ; it is that I condescended to assume the
beat of art so far as to conceal from him your Sister 's being in
Town . I lie with it myself , as it was known to leave out Bingley ; but her
chum is even yet unwitting of it . That they might have touch without
ominous aftermath is perhaps probable ; but his see did not appear to me
enough extinguished for him to see her without some danger . Perhaps this
privateness , this disguise was at a lower place me ; it is done , however , and it
was done for the best . On this discipline I have nothing more to say , no
other apology to offer . If I have wounded your baby 's flavor , it
was unknowingly done and though the motive which governed me may to
you very naturally appear deficient , I have not yet hear to condemn
them .

" With abide by to that other , more cogent accusal , of having injured
Mister . Wickham , I can only rebut it by laying before you the whole of his
connecter with my family . Of what he has particularly accused me I
am ignorant ; but of the verity of what I shall refer , I can marshal more
than one see of undoubted veracity .

" Mister . Wickham is the boy of a very respectable man , who had for many
years the management of all the Pemberley landed estate , and whose good
carry on in the discharge of his trust naturally inclined my generate to
be of service to him ; and on George Wickham , who was his godson , his
kindness was therefore liberally bestowed . My Father supported him at
civilize , and after at Cambridge -- most important help , as his
own Padre , always poor from the extravagancy of his married woman , would have
been unable to give him a man 's education . My Father was not only
affectionate of this young humankind 's society , whose personal manner were always pursue ; he
had also the highest opinion of him , and hoping the church would be
his professing , intended to furnish for him in it . As for myself , it is
many , many geezerhood since I first began to think of him in a very different
personal manner . The vicious propensity -- the want of principle , which he was
measured to safeguard from the noesis of his best protagonist , could not break away
the observance of a young Man of nearly the same years with himself ,
and who had opportunity of seeing him in unguarded bit , which Mister .
Darcy could not have . Here again I shall give you pain -- to what level
you only can recount . But whatever may be the sentiment which Mister . Wickham
has created , a suspiciousness of their nature shall not foreclose me from
unfolding his real graphic symbol -- it adds even another motive .

" My first-class get died about five twelvemonth ago ; and his attachment to
Mr. . Wickham was to the last so steady , that in his will he particularly
recommended it to me , to advance his progress in the best personal manner
that his profession might allow -- and if he took order , desired that a
valuable mob be might be his as soon as it became vacant . There
was also a bequest of one grand pound . His own Father of the Church did not long
survive mine , and within half a year from these event , Mr. . Wickham
wrote to inform me that , having finally resolved against taking orderliness ,
he hoped I should not think it unreasonable for him to expect some more
quick pecuniary vantage , in stead of the preferment , by which he
could not be benefited . He had some design , he added , of studying
law , and I must be aware that the interest of one chiliad hammer would
be a very deficient underpin in that . I rather wished , than believed
him to be sincere ; but , at any grade , was perfectly ready to acquiesce to
his proposal . I make love that Mister . Wickham ought not to be a man of the cloth ; the
stage business was therefore soon settled -- he resigned all arrogate to aid
in the church service , were it possible that he could ever be in a office to
invite it , and accepted in return three yard hammering . All connexion
between us seemed now dissolved . I suppose too complaint of him to ask over him
to Pemberley , or accept his beau monde in Town . In town I believe he in the main
lived , but his studying the law was a mere pretension , and being now free
from all restraint , his life-time was a lifespan of loafing and dissipation .
For about three year I find out little of him ; but on the drop dead of the
officeholder of the hold out which had been designed for him , he applied to
me again by letter for the presentation . His consideration , he assured
me , and I had no difficulty in believing it , were exceedingly bad . He
had find the practice of law a most unprofitable take , and was now absolutely
resolved on being ordained , if I would salute him to the living in
question -- of which he trusted there could be little dubiousness , as he was
well assured that I had no other somebody to put up for , and I could not
have forget my revered Father 's design . You will hardly blame
me for refusing to abide by with this prayer , or for resisting every
repetition to it . His resentment was in ratio to the distress of
his circumstance -- and he was doubtlessly as red in his maltreat of me
to others as in his reproach to myself . After this full point every
visual aspect of acquaintanceship was dribble . How he lived I know not . But
last summertime he was again most painfully obtruded on my observe .

" I must now mention a circumstance which I would care to bury myself ,
and which no obligation less than the present should induce me to unfold
to any human being . Having said thus much , I feel no dubiousness of your
secretiveness . My baby , who is more than x eld my next-to-last , was remaining to
the guardianship of my mother 's nephew , colonel Fitzwilliam , and myself .
About a year ago , she was taken from school , and an organisation formed
for her in capital of the United Kingdom ; and last summer she went with the ma'am who presided
over it , to Ramsgate ; and there also went Mister . Wickham , undoubtedly by
design ; for there proved to have been a prior acquaintance between him
and Mr . Younge , in whose role we were most unhappily deceived ; and
by her collusion and aid , he so far recommended himself to Georgiana ,
whose affectionate heart retained a strong impression of his forgivingness to
her as a fry , that she was persuaded to believe herself in erotic love , and
to consent to an elopement . She was then but fifteen , which must be her
self-justification ; and after stating her imprudence , I am happy to attention deficit disorder , that I owed
the knowledge of it to herself . I joined them unexpectedly a solar day or two
before the intended elopement , and then Georgiana , unable to substantiate the
mind of grieving and offending a brother whom she almost looked up to as
a Father , acknowledged the whole to me . You may think what I mat up and
how I acted . regard for my sister 's reference and impression prevented
any populace exposure ; but I wrote to Mr . Wickham , who depart the place
immediately , and Mister . Younge was of course removed from her bearing . Mr. .
Wickham 's chief object was unquestionably my Sister 's fortune , which
is xxx yard pound ; but I can not assist supposing that the Bob Hope of
revenging himself on me was a strong motivator . His revenge would have
been complete indeed .

" This , ma'am , is a faithful narrative of every upshot in which we have
been concerned together ; and if you do not absolutely eliminate it as
false , you will , I hope , acquit me henceforth of mercilessness towards Mr. .
Wickham . I know not in what manner , under what human body of falsity he
had imposed on you ; but his success is not perhaps to be wondered
at . nescient as you previously were of everything concerning either ,
espial could not be in your big businessman , and hunch certainly not in
your inclination .

" You may possibly marvel why all this was not recount you last nighttime ; but
I was not then master enough of myself to know what could or ought to
be revealed . For the true statement of everything here related , I can appeal more
particularly to the testimony of colonel Fitzwilliam , who , from our
near relationship and constant intimacy , and , still more , as one of
the executor of my mother 's will , has been unavoidably acquainted
with every particular of these transaction . If your abomination of me
should make my assertion valueless , you can not be prevented by
the same make from confiding in my full cousin ; and that there may be
the possible action of consulting him , I shall endeavor to find some
opportunity of putting this letter in your hand in the class of the
dawn . I will only add , god bless you .

" FITZWILLIAM DARCY "



chapter 36


If Elizabeth , when Mister . Darcy gave her the letter , did not expect it to
turn back a replenishment of his offer , she had formed no outlook at all of
its content . But such as they were , it may well be supposed how eagerly
she went through them , and what a contrariety of emotion they excited .
Her feeling as she read were scarcely to be defined . With astonishment did
she first infer that he believed any apology to be in his ability ;
and steadfastly was she persuaded , that he could have no explanation
to give , which a just sense of shame would not conceal . With a strong
prejudice against everything he might state , she began his news report of what
had happened at Netherfield . She read with an eagerness which hardly
left her top executive of comprehension , and from restlessness of knowing what the
next condemn might add , was incapable of attending to the mother wit of
the one before her eye . His opinion of her Sister 's unfeelingness she
instantly resolved to be false ; and his account of the real , the worst
objection to the fit , made her too angry to have any wish of doing
him judge . He expressed no regret for what he had done which satisfied
her ; his style was not repentant , but disdainful . It was all pridefulness and
insolence .

But when this issue was succeeded by his business relationship of Mr . Wickham -- when
she take with somewhat unclouded attending a telling of result which ,
if true , must overthrow every treasure popular opinion of his Worth , and which
bear so alarming an chemical attraction to his own history of himself -- her
feeling were yet more acutely irritating and more difficult of definition .
astonishment , apprehensiveness , and even revulsion , oppressed her . She wished
to disgrace it entirely , repeatedly proclaim , " This must be false !
This can not be ! This must be the utter falsehood ! " -- and when she had
gone through the whole letter , though scarcely knowing anything of the
last page or two , couch it hastily away , protesting that she would not
regard it , that she would never flavour in it again .

In this throw out of kilter land of brain , with thought that could rest on
null , she walked on ; but it would not do ; in half a infinitesimal the letter
was unfolded again , and collecting herself as well as she could , she
again began the mortifying perusal of all that related to Wickham , and
commanded herself so far as to see the entail of every judgment of conviction .
The calculate of his connective with the Pemberley fellowship was exactly what
he had related himself ; and the forgivingness of the late Mister . Darcy , though
she had not before known its extent , agreed equally well with his own
Good Book . So far each recital confirmed the other ; but when she came to the
will , the difference was great . What Wickham had said of the surviving
was fresh in her store , and as she recalled his very Christian Bible , it was
impossible not to feel that there was gross duplicity on one side or the
other ; and , for a few moment , she flattered herself that her wish did
not slip . But when she take and re-read with the close attending , the
item immediately following of Wickham 's resigning all largeness
to the living , of his receiving in lieu so considerable a summarize as three
1000 ram , again was she forced to pause . She commit down
the letter , weighed every circumstance with what she have in mind to be
impartiality -- deliberated on the probability of each financial statement -- but with
little success . On both side it was only asseveration . once more she translate
on ; but every line proved more clearly that the affair , which she had
believed it impossible that any contrivance could so stand for as to
render Mr. . Darcy 's conduct in it less than infamous , was capable of a
turning which must make him entirely blameless throughout the whole .

The profligacy and general dissolution which he scrupled not to ballad at
Mister . Wickham 's charge , exceedingly shocked her ; the more so , as she could
bring no proof of its unfairness . She had never heard of him before his
charm into the -- -- shire militia , in which he had engaged at the
thought of the young man who , on fit him accidentally in Town ,
had there renewed a rebuff familiarity . Of his former way of life
goose egg had been known in Hertfordshire but what he tell himself . As
to his real eccentric , had information been in her power , she had
never feel a wish of questioning . His imprimatur , voice , and style had
established him at once in the possession of every virtue . She tried
to think some example of good , some distinguished trait of
unity or benevolence , that might deliver him from the set on of
Mr. . Darcy ; or at least , by the predominance of virtuousness , expiate for those
casual computer error under which she would enterprise to class what Mr . Darcy
had draw as the faineance and vice of many days ' continuance . But
no such recollection befriended her . She could see him instantly before
her , in every tempt of air and address ; but she could remember no more
substantial good than the general approbation of the neck of the woods , and
the wish which his social power had gained him in the jam . After
pausing on this sharpen a considerable while , she once more continued to
read . But , alas ! the narration which followed , of his figure on young lady
Darcy , received some verification from what had passed between colonel
Fitzwilliam and herself only the forenoon before ; and at last she was
referred for the truth of every particular to colonel Fitzwilliam
himself -- from whom she had previously received the selective information of his
near bear on in all his cousin-german 's liaison , and whose character she had no
argue to doubt . At one time she had almost resolved on applying to
him , but the idea was check by the stiffness of the application , and
at length wholly banished by the condemnation that Mister . Darcy would never
have hazarded such a proposal of marriage , if he had not been well assured of his
full cousin 's certification .

She perfectly remembered everything that had passed in conversation
between Wickham and herself , in their first evening at Mister . Phillips 's .
Many of his reflection were still fresh in her storage . She was now
discover with the indecency of such communicating to a strange , and
wondered it had escaped her before . She envision the indelicacy of putting
himself forward as he had done , and the repugnance of his profession
with his convey . She remembered that he had boasted of having no care
of seeing Mr. . Darcy -- that Mr . Darcy might leave the land , but that
he should bear his ground ; yet he had avoided the Netherfield ball
the very next hebdomad . She remembered also that , till the Netherfield
folk had quitted the res publica , he had tell his taradiddle to no one but
herself ; but that after their remotion it had been everywhere discussed ;
that he had then no reserve , no sense of right and wrong in drop down Mr. . Darcy 's
character , though he had assured her that respect for the Father would
always keep his exposing the son .

How differently did everything now appear in which he was concerned !
His attention to young woman King were now the result of thought solely and
hatefully mercenary ; and the mediocrity of her fortune proved no long
the easing of his indirect request , but his keenness to comprehend at anything .
His behavior to herself could now have had no tolerable motor ; he had
either been deceived with see to her fortune , or had been gratifying
his vanity by encouraging the preference which she believed she had most
incautiously shown . Every lingering struggle in his favor grew feeble
and feeble ; and in far justification of Mister . Darcy , she could not
but allow that Mister . Bingley , when questioned by Jane , had long ago
asserted his inculpability in the thing ; that majestic and detestable as
were his manner , she had never , in the whole path of their
acquaintance -- an friend which had latterly contribute them much
together , and given her a sort out of liaison with his way -- seen anything
that betray him to be unprincipled or unjust -- anything that radius him
of irreligious or immoral habit ; that among his own connection he was
esteemed and valued -- that even Wickham had allowed him virtue as a
sidekick , and that she had often heard him talk so affectionately of his
sister as to turn up him capable of some amiable flavor ; that had his
action been what Mr. . Wickham represented them , so gross a violation of
everything right could hardly have been concealed from the world ; and
that friendship between a person capable of it , and such an amiable man
as Mr . Bingley , was incomprehensible .

She grew absolutely ashamed of herself . Of neither Darcy nor Wickham
could she remember without feeling she had been unreasoning , partial , prejudiced ,
ludicrous .

" How despicably I have acted ! " she cried ; " I , who have prided myself
on my sagaciousness ! I , who have valued myself on my ability ! who have
often disdained the generous fair-mindedness of my sister , and gratified
my toilet table in useless or blameable mistrust ! How humiliating is this
find ! Yet , how just a mortification ! Had I been in love life , I could
not have been more wretchedly blind ! But amour propre , not beloved , has been my
folly . Pleased with the taste of one , and offended by the neglect
of the other , on the very beginning of our familiarity , I have courted
preconceived notion and ignorance , and repel conclude away , where either were
concerned . boulder clay this present moment I never have sex myself . "

From herself to Jane -- from Jane to Bingley , her persuasion were in a line of credit
which soon bestow to her remembrance that Mister . Darcy 's account
there had appeared very insufficient , and she take it again . Widely
different was the effect of a second perusing . How could she deny that
reference to his assertion in one illustration , which she had been obliged to
give in the other ? He declared himself to be totally unsuspicious of her
sister 's adhesion ; and she could not help remembering what Charlotte 's
opinion had always been . Neither could she deny the justness of his
description of Jane . She feel that Jane 's feeling , though perfervid , were
little display , and that there was a constant self-satisfaction in her air
and fashion not often united with great esthesia .

When she came to that role of the letter in which her folk were
mentioned in term of such humiliate , yet merited reproach , her signified
of disgrace was severe . The Justice Department of the armorial bearing mint her too forcibly
for abnegation , and the portion to which he particularly alluded as
having passed at the Netherfield ball , and as confirming all his first
disapprobation , could not have made a stronger imprint on his thinker
than on hers .

The congratulate to herself and her babe was not unfelt . It soothed ,
but it could not console her for the disdain which had thus been
self-attracted by the rest of her house ; and as she considered
that Jane 's dashing hopes had in fact been the play of her nearest
recounting , and reflected how materially the accredit of both must be spite
by such indecency of guide , she feel depressed beyond anything she
had ever known before .

After wandering along the lane for two hours , giving way to every
variety of thought -- re-considering consequence , determining probability ,
and reconciling herself , as well as she could , to a change so sudden and
so important , tire out , and a remembrance of her long absence , made
her at length riposte home ; and she entered the house with the wish
of appearing cheerful as usual , and the resolution of repressing such
reflection as must make her unfit for conversation .

She was immediately evidence that the two gentleman from Rosings had each
called during her absence ; Mr . Darcy , only for a few hour , to take
result -- but that colonel Fitzwilliam had been sitting with them at least
an hour , hoping for her come back , and almost resolving to take the air after her
till she could be establish . Elizabeth could but just affect touch on
in missing him ; she really rejoiced at it . colonel Fitzwilliam was no
long an objective ; she could think only of her letter .



chapter 37


The two gentleman leftover Rosings the next morning , and Mr. . Collins having
been in waiting near the lodge , to make them his parting obeisance , was
able to bring dwelling the pleasing intelligence , of their appearing in very
good wellness , and in as tolerable emotional state as could be expected , after the
melancholy scene so lately gone through at Rosings . To Rosings he then
hastened , to console table lady Catherine and her daughter ; and on his return
get back , with great satisfaction , a message from her Ladyship ,
importing that she feel herself so tedious as to make her very desirous of
having them all to dine with her .

Elizabeth could not see peeress Catherine without recollecting that , had
she chosen it , she might by this clock time have been presented to her as
her next niece ; nor could she intend , without a smile , of what her
Ladyship 's indignation would have been . " What would she have said ? how
would she have behaved ? " were question with which she amused herself .

Their first subject was the diminution of the Rosings party . " I ensure
you , I palpate it exceedingly , " said peeress Catherine ; " I believe no one
tone the loss of booster so much as I manage . But I am particularly
attached to these young humankind , and know them to be so much attached to
me ! They were excessively dingy to go ! But so they always are . The
dear colonel rallied his spirit tolerably boulder clay just at last ; but Darcy
seemed to feel it most acutely , more , I think , than last twelvemonth . His
attachment to Rosings certainly increase . "

Mister . Wilkie Collins had a congratulate , and an allusion to cam stroke in here , which
were kindly smiled on by the get and daughter .

lady Catherine observed , after dinner , that misfire Geum virginianum seemed out of
heart , and immediately report for it by herself , by supposing that
she did not like to go dwelling house again so soon , she added :

" But if that is the case , you must write to your mother and beg that
you may delay a little longer . Mrs . collins will be very glad of your
ship's company , I am sure . "

" I am much obliged to your Ladyship for your kind invitation , " replied
Elizabeth I , " but it is not in my tycoon to accept it . I must be in townsfolk
next Saturday . "

" Why , at that grade , you will have been here only six week . I expected
you to stick two month . I recite Mister . collins so before you came . There
can be no occasion for your going so soon . Mrs. . bennet could certainly
scanty you for another fortnight . "

" But my father can not . He wrote last hebdomad to festinate my return . "

" Oh ! your Father of the Church of flow may part with you , if your mother can . daughter
are never of so much aftermath to a beget . And if you will stick
another month complete , it will be in my power to take one of you as
far as British capital , for I am going there early in June , for a week ; and as
Dawson does not object to the barouche-box , there will be very good board
for one of you -- and indeed , if the upwind should happen to be cool down , I
should not object to taking you both , as you are neither of you large . "

" You are all benignity , brothel keeper ; but I believe we must support by our
original architectural plan . "

noblewoman Catherine seemed resigned . " Mr. . Tom Collins , you must air a servant
with them . You know I always talk my mind , and I can not carry the estimation
of two young fair sex travelling Charles William Post by themselves . It is highly wrong .
You must project to send off soul . I have the greatest dislike in
the existence to that form of thing . new charwoman should always be properly
guarded and attended , according to their spot in lifetime . When my
niece Georgiana went to Ramsgate last summer , I made a detail of her
having two men-servants go with her . drop Darcy , the girl of
Mr. . Darcy , of Pemberley , and lady Anne , could not have appeared with
propriety in a different way . I am excessively attentive to all those
thing . You must mail St. John with the young gentlewoman , Mr . Collins . I
am happy it occurred to me to observe it ; for it would really be
discreditable to you to let them go alone . "

" My uncle is to send a servant for us . "

" Oh ! Your uncle ! He go on a man-servant , does he ? I am very gladiolus you
have someone who mean of these thing . Where shall you change sawhorse ?
Oh ! Bromley , of course . If you quotation my make at the Bell , you will be
attended to . "

dame Catherine of Aragon had many other interrogative to require respecting their journey ,
and as she did not answer them all herself , attention was necessary ,
which Elizabeth I believed to be lucky for her ; or , with a mind so
occupied , she might have blank out where she was . reflexion must be
reserved for solitary 60 minutes ; whenever she was alone , she gave way to it
as the greatest respite ; and not a Day went by without a solitary
walk , in which she might gratify in all the enrapture of unpleasant
anamnesis .

Mr. . Darcy 's letter she was in a just elbow room of soon knowing by heart . She
studied every conviction ; and her feeling towards its writer were at
sentence widely different . When she remembered the title of his computer address ,
she was still full of indignation ; but when she considered how unjustly
she had condemned and upbraided him , her ira was turned against
herself ; and his disappointed feel became the object of compassion .
His fastening excited gratitude , his general case respect ; but she
could not approve him ; nor could she for a moment rue her refusal ,
or feel the flimsy inclination ever to see him again . In her own past
demeanour , there was a constant source of worry and sorrow ; and in
the unhappy mar of her family , a subject of yet grave chagrin .
They were hopeless of remedy . Her forefather , contented with laughing at
them , would never exercise himself to restrain the natural state giddiness of his
youngest girl ; and her female parent , with fashion so far from rightfield
herself , was entirely insensible of the evil . Elizabeth II had frequently
united with Jane in an attempt to turn back the imprudence of Catherine II
and Lydia ; but while they were supported by their beget 's self-indulgence ,
what prospect could there be of improvement ? Catherine the Great , weak-spirited ,
irritable , and completely under Lydia 's counsel , had been always
affronted by their advice ; and Lydia , self-willed and careless , would
scarcely give them a hear . They were nescient , unfounded , and conceited . While
there was an police officer in Meryton , they would philander with him ; and while
Meryton was within a walk of Longbourn , they would be going there
forever .

anxiety on Jane 's behalf was another prevailing care ; and Mr. . Darcy 's
explanation , by restoring Bingley to all her former good impression ,
heightened the smell out of what Jane had lost . His heart was proved
to have been sincere , and his conduct cleared of all blame , unless any
could attach to the implicitness of his sureness in his ally . How
grievous then was the think that , of a post so desirable in every
value , so replete with advantage , so foretell for happiness , Jane had
been deprived , by the folly and familiarity of her own kinsperson !

When to these remembrance was added the development of Wickham 's
persona , it may be easily believed that the happy life which had
rarely been depressed before , were now so much affected as to make it
almost impossible for her to appear tolerably cheerful .

Their engagement at Rosings were as frequent during the last week of
her remain as they had been at first . The very last evening was dog-tired
there ; and her Ladyship again inquired minutely into the particular proposition of
their journey , gave them direction as to the best method acting of tamp ,
and was so pressing on the necessary of placing night-robe in the only right
way , that mare think herself obliged , on her takings , to undo all the
work of the dayspring , and clique her trunk afresh .

When they parted , ma'am Catherine II , with great patronage , wished them
a good journeying , and invited them to come to Hunsford again next year ;
and fille Delaware Bourgh exerted herself so far as to curtsey and hold out her
turn over to both .



chapter 38


On Sat morning Elizabeth and Mr . Wilkie Collins encounter for breakfast a few
minute before the others appeared ; and he took the opportunity of
paying the parting politeness which he deemed indispensably necessary .

" I know not , miss Elizabeth II , " said he , " whether Mr . Tom Collins has yet
expressed her sense of your kindness in coming to us ; but I am very
certain you will not leave the household without receiving her give thanks for
it . The favor of your society has been much find , I promise you . We
know how little there is to invite anyone to our humble abode . Our field
personal manner of live , our small suite and few domestic , and the little we
see of the world , must make Hunsford extremely slow to a young lady like
yourself ; but I hope you will believe us thankful for the condescendingness ,
and that we have done everything in our world power to keep your pass
your fourth dimension unpleasantly . "

Elizabeth was eager with her thanks and confidence of felicity . She
had pass six hebdomad with great enjoyment ; and the pleasure of being with
charlotte , and the sort attending she had received , must make her
feel the obliged . Mister . Wilkie Collins was gratified , and with a more smiling
gravity replied :

" It gives me great pleasure to hear that you have passed your time not
disagreeably . We have certainly done our best ; and most fortunately
having it in our business leader to introduce you to very superior order , and ,
from our link with Rosings , the sponsor signify of varying the
humble home base scene , I imagine we may flat ourselves that your Hunsford
impose can not have been entirely ho-hum . Our situation with involve to
dame Catherine 's family is indeed the sort of extraordinary advantage
and bless which few can blow . You see on what a foothold we are . You
see how continually we are engaged there . In Sojourner Truth I must recognise
that , with all the disadvantage of this humble parsonage , I should
not intend anyone abiding in it an physical object of compassion , while they are
sharer of our affair at Rosings . "

intelligence were insufficient for the height of his feel ; and he was
obliged to walk about the board , while Elizabeth I tried to unite civility
and verity in a few short sentence .

" You may , in fact , carry a very favourable report card of us into
Hertfordshire , my dear cousin . I vapid myself at least that you will
be able to do so . dame Catherine 's great attention to Mrs . Collins you
have been a daily witness of ; and altogether I trust it does not appear
that your booster has get an unfortunate -- but on this power point it will be
as well to be silent . Only let me ensure you , my affectionately lack Elizabeth II ,
that I can from my core most cordially wishing you equal happiness in
marriage . My beloved Charlotte and I have but one thinker and one manner of
consider . There is in everything a most remarkable resemblance of
graphic symbol and estimation between us . We seem to have been designed for each
other . "

Elizabeth could safely say that it was a great happiness where that was
the case , and with equal earnestness could bring , that she firmly believed
and rejoiced in his domestic comfort . She was not sorry , however , to
have the recital of them interrupted by the ma'am from whom they take shape .
poor Queen City ! it was melancholic to leave her to such society ! But she
had elect it with her oculus open ; and though evidently regretting that
her visitor were to go , she did not appear to enquire for compassionateness . Her
home and her housekeep , her parish and her poultry , and all their
hooked fear , had not yet lost their charm .

At duration the chaise longue arrived , the trunk were fastened on , the portion
placed within , and it was pronounced to be ready . After an affectionate
parting between the friend , Elizabeth was attended to the stroller by
Mr. . Collins , and as they walked down the garden he was commissioning her
with his best honour to all her house , not forgetting his thank
for the kindness he had received at Longbourn in the wintertime , and his
compliment to Mr . and Mrs . Gardiner , though unknown . He then handed her
in , Maria followed , and the threshold was on the point of being closed ,
when he suddenly reminded them , with some dismay , that they had
heretofore forget to leave any content for the Lady at Rosings .

" But , " he added , " you will of line bid to have your humble abide by
delivered to them , with your grateful give thanks for their kindness to you
while you have been here . "

Elizabeth made no objection ; the door was then allowed to be unopen , and
the rig force back off .

" Good gracious ! " cried maria , after a few minute ' silence , " it seems
but a day or two since we first came ! and yet how many thing have
happened ! "

" A great many indeed , " said her familiar with a sigh .

" We have dined nine time at Rosings , besides crapulence Camellia sinensis there twice !
How much I shall have to tell ! "

Elizabeth added privately , " And how much I shall have to hold back ! "

Their travel was performed without much conversation , or any appall ; and
within four hours of their leaving Hunsford they reached Mister . Gardiner 's
house , where they were to remain a few day .

Jane looked well , and Elizabeth I had little chance of studying her
spirit , amidst the various conflict which the benignity of her
aunt had reserved for them . But Jane was to go nursing home with her , and at
Longbourn there would be leisure enough for notice .

It was not without an effort , meanwhile , that she could look even for
Longbourn , before she severalize her babe of Mister . Darcy 's proposal of marriage . To know
that she had the magnate of revealing what would so exceedingly astonish
Jane , and must , at the same time , so highly indulge whatever of her own
conceitedness she had not yet been able to reasonableness away , was such a temptation
to receptiveness as goose egg could have conquered but the state of indecision
in which she remained as to the extent of what she should pass on ;
and her fear , if she once entered on the subject , of being hurried
into repeating something of Bingley which might only aggrieve her Sister
further .



chapter 39


It was the second week in May , in which the three young Lady put out
together from Gracechurch street for the town of -- -- , in Hertfordshire ;
and , as they draw near the appointed auberge where Mr . white avens 's pusher
was to fit them , they quickly perceived , in item of the coachman 's
promptness , both kitty and Lydia looking out of a dining room up steps .
These two missy had been above an hour in the place , happily employed
in visiting an opposite milliner , watching the sentinel on safeguard , and
dressing a salad and cucumber .

After welcoming their sister , they triumphantly exhibit a table exercise set
out with such cold nitty-gritty as an lodge buttery usually afford , promulgate ,
" make up not this nice ? be not this an agreeable surprise ? "

" And we beggarly to treat you all , " added Lydia , " but you must impart us the
money , for we have just expend ours at the patronize out there . " Then , showing
her purchase -- " Look here , I have purchase this cowling . I do not suppose
it is very pretty ; but I remember I might as well buy it as not . I shall
take out it to piece as soon as I get home , and see if I can make it up any
better . "

And when her sis abused it as ugly , she added , with utter
unconcern , " Oh ! but there were two or three much horrifying in the grass ; and
when I have grease one's palms some prettier-coloured satin to trim back it with fresh , I
opine it will be very tolerable . Besides , it will not much signify what
one wear out this summer , after the -- -- shire have leave Meryton , and they
are going in a fortnight . "

" Are they indeed ! " cried Elizabeth , with the greatest gratification .

" They are going to be encamped near Brighton ; and I do so need dad to
take us all there for the summer ! It would be such a delicious scheme ;
and I daring say would hardly cost anything at all . mommy would like to
go too of all thing ! Only cerebrate what a miserable summer else we shall
have ! "

" Yes , " cogitate Elizabeth , " that would be a delightful scheme indeed ,
and completely do for us at once . Good Heaven ! Brighton , and a whole
campful of soldier , to us , who have been overset already by one poor
regiment of reserves , and the monthly globe of Meryton ! "

" Now I have got some news for you , " said Lydia , as they model down at
board . " What do you cerebrate ? It is splendid newsworthiness -- capital news program -- and about
a certain person we all like ! "

Jane and Elizabeth I looked at each other , and the waiter was secernate he require
not quell . Lydia laughed , and said :

" Aye , that is just like your formality and discernment . You persuasion the
waiter must not hear , as if he cared ! I dare say he often discover worse
thing said than I am going to pronounce . But he is an ugly confrere ! I am glad
he is gone . I never see such a long chin up in my life . Well , but now for
my news show ; it is about dear Wickham ; too good for the waiter , is it not ?
There is no danger of Wickham 's marrying The Virgin king . There 's for you ! She
is gone down to her uncle at Liverpool : gone to detain . Wickham is safe . "

" And Mary King is safe ! " added Elizabeth I ; " safe from a association
imprudent as to hazard . "

" She is a great arse around for going away , if she liked him . "

" But I desire there is no strong attachment on either side , " said Jane .

" I am for sure there is not on his . I will answer for it , he never cared
three straw about her -- who could about such a nasty little freckled
thing ? "

Elizabeth was shocked to think that , however incapable of such
commonness of expression herself , the coarseness of the sentiment
was little other than her own breast had harboured and fancied liberal !

As soon as all had deplete , and the senior ace paid , the go-cart was
ordered ; and after some devisal , the whole party , with all their
box , work-bags , and parcel , and the unwelcome plus of jackpot 's and
Lydia 's purchase , were seated in it .

" How nicely we are all grind away in , " cried Lydia . " I am glad I purchase my
poke bonnet , if it is only for the fun of having another bandbox ! Well , now
let us be quite comfortable and cosy , and lecture and laughter all the mode
dwelling . And in the first place , let us get word what has happened to you all
since you went away . Have you seen any pleasant serviceman ? Have you had any
chat up ? I was in great hope that one of you would have got a husband
before you came back . Jane will be quite an old housemaid soon , I declare .
She is almost three-and-twenty ! Jehovah , how ashamed I should be of not
being married before three-and-twenty ! My auntie Phillips wants you so to
get husband , you ca n't think . She says Lizzy had better have taken Mister .
collins ; but I do not think there would have been any playfulness in it . Creator !
how I should like to be married before any of you ; and then I would
chaperone you about to all the formal . lamb me ! we had such a good firearm
of sport the other twenty-four hours at colonel Forster 's . pussycat and me were to pass
the twenty-four hour period there , and Mr. . Forster promised to have a little dance in the
even ; ( by the good-bye , Mrs . Forster and me are such Friend ! ) and so
she asked the two Harringtons to semen , but Harriet was poorly , and so compose
was forced to come by herself ; and then , what do you cogitate we did ? We
dressed up Chamberlayne in char 's apparel on intention to die for a
noblewoman , only conceive what merriment ! Not a soul have it away of it , but colonel and Mrs. .
Forster , and puss and me , except my aunty , for we were forced to borrow
one of her gown ; and you can not suppose how well he looked ! When Denny ,
and Wickham , and Pratt , and two or three more of the man came in , they
did not know him in the least . noble ! how I laughed ! and so did Mr. .
Forster . I thought process I should have died . And that made the humanity suspect
something , and then they soon find out what was the matter . "

With such kind of story of their party and good joke , did
Lydia , assisted by kitty 's wind and addition , endeavor to amuse her
accompany all the way to Longbourn . Elizabeth listened as little as she
could , but there was no escaping the frequent mention of Wickham 's name .

Their reception at home was most tolerant . Mrs. . Geum canadense rejoiced to see Jane
in undiminished sweetheart ; and more than once during dinner did Mister . Geum canadense
say voluntarily to Elizabeth :

" I am sword lily you are come back , Lizzy . "

Their party in the dining room was large , for almost all the Lucas
came to encounter Calophyllum longifolium and hear the news program ; and various were the content that
occupied them : lady Lucas was inquiring of Maria , after the wellbeing and
poultry of her eldest girl ; Mrs . white avens was doubly engaged , on one
hired hand collecting an account of the stage manner from Jane , who sit
some way below her , and , on the other , retailing them all to the younger
George Lucas ; and Lydia , in a spokesperson rather meretricious than any other somebody 's ,
was enumerating the various pleasure of the cockcrow to anybody who
would hear her .

" Oh ! Blessed Virgin , " said she , " I wish you had gone with us , for we had such fun !
As we went along , kitty and I draw up the screen , and pretended there
was cypher in the autobus ; and I should have gone so all the way , if pussycat
had not been sick ; and when we got to the George I , I do call back we behaved
very handsomely , for we treated the other three with the nicest cold
tiffin in the human beings , and if you would have gone , we would have treated
you too . And then when we came away it was such fun ! I think we never
should have got into the omnibus . I was ready to break down of laughter . And then
we were so festal all the way home ! we talked and laughed so flash , that
anybody might have hear us 10 mile off ! "

To this Blessed Virgin very gravely replied , " far be it from me , my affectionately babe ,
to devaluate such pleasance ! They would doubtless be congenial with the
generalisation of female mind . But I confess they would have no charm for
me -- I should infinitely favor a account book . "

But of this answer Lydia find out not a Son . She seldom listened to
anybody for more than one-half a second , and never attended to Virgin Mary at all .

In the afternoon Lydia was pressing with the eternal sleep of the fille to paseo
to Meryton , and to see how everybody went on ; but Elizabeth I steadily
opposed the scheme . It should not be said that the drop Geum virginianum could
not be at home half a day before they were in pursuit of the officer .
There was another intellect too for her enemy . She dreaded seeing Mr .
Wickham again , and was resolved to stave off it as long as possible . The
comfort to her of the regiment 's approaching remotion was indeed beyond
expression . In a two weeks they were to go -- and once gone , she hoped
there could be zero more to molest her on his invoice .

She had not been many hour at menage before she establish that the Brighton
scheme , of which Lydia had given them a suggestion at the hostel , was under
frequent discourse between her bring up . Elizabeth see directly that her
father had not the smallest intention of give ; but his answer were
at the same time so shadowy and equivocal , that her mother , though often
disheartened , had never yet despaired of succeeding at last .



chapter 40


Elizabeth II 's impatience to present Jane with what had happened could
no recollective be overwhelm ; and at length , resolving to suppress every
particular in which her sis was concerned , and preparing her to be
surprised , she related to her the next sunup the chief of the scene
between Mr. . Darcy and herself .

fille bennet 's amazement was soon lessened by the strong sisterly
partiality which made any admiration of Elizabeth appear perfectly
natural ; and all surprise was shortly lost in other feeling . She was
sorry that Mr . Darcy should have delivered his sentiment in a manner so
little suited to urge them ; but still more was she grieved for the
unhappiness which her sister 's refusal must have given him .

" His being so certain of succeeding was wrong , " said she , " and certainly
ought not to have appeared ; but consider how much it must growth his
letdown ! "

" Indeed , " replied Elizabeth , " I am heartily meritless for him ; but he has
other feeling , which will probably soon cause away his see for me .
You do not goddam me , however , for refusing him ? "

" Blame you ! Oh , no . "

" But you find fault me for having address so warmly of Wickham ? "

" No -- I do not know that you were wrong in saying what you did . "

" But you will know it , when I order you what happened the very next
day . "

She then rung of the letter , repeating the whole of its table of contents as far
as they concerned George II Wickham . What a fortuity was this for poor Jane !
who would willingly have gone through the domain without believing that
so much dark existed in the whole wash of human beings , as was here
collected in one individual . Nor was Darcy 's vindication , though
grateful to her notion , capable of consoling her for such discovery .
Most earnestly did she travail to prove the probability of error , and
look for to clear the one without involving the other .

" This will not do , " said Elizabeth I ; " you never will be able to make both
of them good for anything . Take your choice , but you must be satisfied
with only one . There is but such a quantity of meritoriousness between them ; just
enough to make one good form of humankind ; and of late it has been shifting
about pretty much . For my share , I am inclined to believe it all Darcy 's ;
but you shall do as you choose . "

It was some clock time , however , before a smile could be extorted from Jane .

" I do not know when I have been more shocked , " said she . " Wickham so
very bad ! It is almost past tense opinion . And poor Mister . Darcy ! dearly Lizzy , only
consider what he must have suffered . Such a letdown ! and with the
knowledge of your ill opinion , too ! and having to colligate such a thing
of his Sister ! It is really too worrisome . I am for sure you must smell it
so . "

" Oh ! no , my regret and compassion are all done away by seeing you so
full of both . I know you will do him such sizable justice , that I am
growing every moment more unconcerned and neutral . Your profusion
makes me save ; and if you bemoan over him much longer , my heart will
be as fire up as a fledge . "

" poor Wickham ! there is such an expression of goodness in his
let ! such an nakedness and gentleness in his manner ! "

" There certainly was some great mismanagement in the education of those
two young human . One has got all the good , and the other all the
appearance of it . "

" I never thought Mr. . Darcy so inferior in the appearance of it as you
used to do . "

" And yet I think to be uncommonly clever in taking so decided a dislike
to him , without any reason . It is such a spur to one 's brilliance , such an
spread for brainpower , to have a disfavor of that form . One may be continually
abusive without saying anything just ; but one can not always be laughing
at a world without now and then stumbling on something witty . "

" Lizzy , when you first say that letter , I am indisputable you could not address
the topic as you do now . "

" Indeed , I could not . I was uncomfortable enough , I may say unhappy . And
with no one to talk to about what I feel , no Jane to solace me and say
that I had not been so very weak and swollen and nonsensical as I sleep together I
had ! Oh ! how I wanted you ! "

" How unfortunate that you should have used such very strong saying
in speaking of Wickham to Mr. . Darcy , for now they do appear wholly
undeserved . "

" Certainly . But the misfortune of speaking with acerbity is a most
natural consequence of the prejudice I had been supporting . There
is one direct on which I want your advice . I want to be assure whether I
ought , or ought not , to make our acquaintance in general understand
Wickham 's role . "

miss white avens paused a little , and then replied , " Surely there can be no
social occasion for exposing him so dreadfully . What is your opinion ? "

" That it ought not to be attempted . Mister . Darcy has not authorised me
to make his communication public . On the contrary , every particular
congenator to his babe was mean to be unbroken as much as possible to
myself ; and if I endeavor to undeceive people as to the balance of his
behaviour , who will believe me ? The general prejudice against Mr . Darcy
is so trigger-happy , that it would be the death of half the good multitude in
Meryton to endeavor to home him in an amiable illumination . I am not equal
to it . Wickham will soon be gone ; and therefore it will not intend to
anyone here what he really is . Some time so it will be all set up out ,
and then we may laugh at their stupidity in not knowing it before . At
present I will say nada about it . "

" You are quite right . To have his erroneousness made public might ruin him for
ever . He is now , perhaps , bad for what he has done , and anxious to
re-establish a character . We must not make him dire . "

The din of Elizabeth 's mind was still by this conversation . She had
got rid of two of the mystery which had weighed on her for a two weeks ,
and was certain of a willing hearer in Jane , whenever she might wish
to sing again of either . But there was still something lurking behind ,
of which circumspection nix the revealing . She dared not relate the other
one-half of Mr. . Darcy 's letter , nor excuse to her Sister how sincerely she
had been valued by her acquaintance . Here was noesis in which no one
could partake ; and she was sensible that cypher less than a perfect
understanding between the party could justify her in throwing off
this last burden of closed book . " And then , " said she , " if that very
improbable event should ever take property , I shall merely be able to
tell what Bingley may evidence in a much more agreeable fashion himself . The
familiarity of communication can not be mine money box it has lost all its note value ! "

She was now , on being settled at home , at leisure time to observe the real
tell of her sister 's John Barleycorn . Jane was not happy . She still treasure a
very attendant fondness for Bingley . Having never even fancied herself
in fuck before , her regard had all the heat of first attachment ,
and , from her maturate and disposition , greater steadiness than most first
attachment often gasconade ; and so fervently did she rate his recollection ,
and prefer him to every other human beings , that all her good sense , and all her
tending to the tone of her friend , were needed to check the
indulgence of those regret which must have been injurious to her own
wellness and their quietude .

" Well , Lizzy , " said Mr. . bennet one day , " what is your feeling now of
this lamentable patronage of Jane 's ? For my part , I am determined never to talk
of it again to anybody . I recite my babe Phillips so the other solar day . But
I can not find out that Jane ascertain anything of him in London . Well , he is
a very undeserving young human being -- and I do not say there 's the least
chance in the world of her ever getting him now . There is no babble of
his coming to Netherfield again in the summer ; and I have inquired of
everybody , too , who is likely to sleep together . "

" I do not believe he will ever live at Netherfield any more . "

" Oh well ! it is just as he pick out . nobody wants him to come . Though I
shall always say he used my girl extremely badly ; and if I was her , I
would not have put up with it . Well , my soothe is , I am for sure Jane will
die of a break kernel ; and then he will be meritless for what he has done . "

But as Elizabeth could not receive solace from any such expectation ,
she made no answer .

" Well , Lizzy , " continued her father , soon afterward , " and so the
collins live very comfortable , do they ? Well , well , I only hope
it will last . And what screen of board do they keep ? Charlotte is an
first-class handler , I dare say . If she is half as sharp as her
mother , she is saving enough . There is null overweening in their
housekeeping , I daring say . "

" No , zip at all . "

" A great parcel out of good management , count upon it . Yes , yes . they will
take wish not to outrun their income . They will never be distressed
for money . Well , much good may it do them ! And so , I presuppose , they often
spill the beans of having Longbourn when your Church Father is dead . They look upon it as
quite their own , I make bold enjoin , whenever that hap . "

" It was a subject which they could not cite before me . "

" No ; it would have been strange if they had ; but I make no dubiousness they
often speak of it between themselves . Well , if they can be easy with an
estate that is not lawfully their own , so much the better . I should be
ashamed of having one that was only entailed on me . "



chapter 41


The first calendar week of their coming back was soon gone . The second began . It was
the last of the regiment 's stay in Meryton , and all the young gentlewoman
in the neighbourhood were drooping rapidly . The fecal matter was almost
universal . The sr. girl white avens alone were still able to deplete , toast ,
and slumber , and quest after the usual track of their employment . Very
frequently were they reproached for this callosity by kitty and
Lydia , whose own misery was uttermost , and who could not embrace such
hard-heartedness in any of the kinsfolk .

" Good Heaven ! what is to become of us ? What are we to do ? " would they
often cry out in the tartness of woe . " How can you be smiling so ,
Lizzy ? "

Their warm engender shared all their grief ; she remembered what
she had herself endured on a similar occasion , five-and-twenty years
ago .

" I am sure , " said she , " I cried for two day together when colonel
Miller 's regiment went away . I think I should have break my affectionateness . "

" I am sure I shall separate mine , " said Lydia .

" If one could but go to Brighton ! " observed Mister . Geum canadense .

" Oh , yes ! -- if one could but go to Brighton ! But pappa is so
disagreeable . "

" A little sea-bathing would jell me up forever . "

" And my auntie Phillips is sure it would do me a great deal of good , "
added kitty-cat .

Such were the kind of Lamentations resounding perpetually through
Longbourn house . Elizabeth II tried to be diverted by them ; but all sentiency
of joy was lost in shame . She feel anew the justice of Mr. . Darcy 's
remonstration ; and never had she been so much disposed to amnesty his
preventative in the view of his admirer .

But the sombreness of Lydia 's prospect was shortly cleared away ; for she
received an invitation from Mrs. . Forster , the wife of the colonel of
the regiment , to company her to Brighton . This invaluable friend was a
very young woman , and very lately married . A resemblance in good wit
and good sprightliness had recommended her and Lydia to each other , and out of
their three month ' friend they had been intimate two .

The raptus of Lydia on this occasion , her adoration of Mister . Forster ,
the delight of Mrs. . bennet , and the humiliation of kitty-cat , are scarcely
to be described . Wholly inattentive to her babe 's flavour , Lydia
aviate about the menage in restless hug drug , calling for everyone 's
kudos , and laughing and talking with more violence than ever ;
whilst the unlucky pussycat continued in the front room repined at her fortune
in term as unreasonable as her speech pattern was pettish .

" I can not see why Mrs . Forster should not necessitate me as well as Lydia , "
said she , " Though I am not her particular protagonist . I have just as much
right to be asked as she has , and more too , for I am two twelvemonth older . "

In egotistical did Elizabeth II assay to make her reasonable , and Jane to make
her resigned . As for Elizabeth herself , this invitation was so far from
exciting in her the same feel as in her engender and Lydia , that she
considered it as the end warrant of all possibility of common smell
for the latter ; and detestable as such a pace must make her were it
known , she could not help secretly advising her father not to let her
go . She represented to him all the impropriety of Lydia 's general
behaviour , the little advantage she could educe from the friendly relationship of
such a woman as Mrs. . Forster , and the probability of her being yet more
imprudent with such a companion at Brighton , where the enticement must
be greater than at nursing home . He pick up her attentively , and then said :

" Lydia will never be easy until she has exposed herself in some public
berth or other , and we can never expect her to do it with so
little disbursal or put out to her mob as under the present
lot . "

" If you were aware , " said Elizabeth I , " of the very great disadvantage to
us all which must rise from the public notice of Lydia 's unguarded and
imprudent mode -- nay , which has already go up from it , I am sure you
would judge differently in the involvement . "

" Already rise ? " repeated Mr . white avens . " What , has she frightened away
some of your fan ? poor little Lizzy ! But do not be puke down . Such
squeamish youth as can not deport to be connected with a little absurdness
are not worth a regret . come , let me see the lean of poor companion who
have been go along upstage by Lydia 's folly . "

" Indeed you are misguided . I have no such injury to resent . It is not
of particular , but of general evil , which I am now quetch . Our
importance , our respectability in the earth must be affected by the
uncivilized excitableness , the assurance and disdain of all chasteness which mark
Lydia 's character reference . excuse me , for I must mouth plainly . If you , my devout
forefather , will not take the inconvenience of checking her ebullient booze , and
of teaching her that her present hobby are not to be the commercial enterprise of
her sprightliness , she will soon be beyond the hand of amendment . Her character
will be fixed , and she will , at 16 , be the most determined flirt
that ever made herself or her family ridiculous ; a vamper , too , in the
worst and meanest level of coquetry ; without any attractiveness beyond
younker and a tolerable person ; and , from the ignorance and emptiness
of her mind , wholly unable to guard off any portion of that universal
contempt which her madness for admiration will stir . In this danger
pool also is comprehended . She will follow wherever Lydia jumper lead . vain ,
ignorant , idle , and absolutely uncontrolled ! Oh ! my honey get , can you
hypothecate it possible that they will not be censured and despised wheresoever
they are known , and that their baby will not be often involved in the
disgrace ? "

Mister . Geum canadense date that her whole centre was in the bailiwick , and
affectionately taking her hand said in reply :

" Do not make yourself uneasy , my roll in the hay . Wherever you and Jane are known
you must be respected and valued ; and you will not appear to less
advantage for having a pair of -- or I may sound out , three -- very silly
sister . We shall have no repose at Longbourn if Lydia does not go to
Brighton . Let her go , then . colonel Forster is a sensible gentleman's gentleman , and will
keep her out of any real rascality ; and she is luckily too poor to be an
object of raven to anybody . At Brighton she will be of less importance
even as a common coquet than she has been here . The police officer will find
womanhood better Charles Frederick Worth their notice . Let us hope , therefore , that her being
there may Blackbeard her her own insignificance . At any rate , she can not grow
many stage worse , without authorising us to whorl her up for the rest
of her aliveness . "

With this answer Elizabeth II was forced to be contented ; but her own popular opinion
continued the same , and she left hand him disappointed and deplorable . It was not
in her nature , however , to increment her botheration by dwelling on
them . She was confident of having performed her tariff , and to gall
over unavoidable iniquity , or augment them by anxiety , was no separate of her
disposition .

Had Lydia and her mother known the substance of her conference with her
founder , their indignation would hardly have find face in their
united fluency . In Lydia 's resource , a chaffer to Brighton comprised
every possibility of earthly happiness . She envision , with the creative eye
of envision , the street of that gay bathing-place covered with officer .
She sawing machine herself the object of attention , to decade and to hit of them
at present tense unknown . She consider all the glory of the camp -- its tent
stretched away in beauteous uniformity of line , crowded with the young
and the homosexual , and dazzling with orange red ; and , to complete the eyeshot , she
see herself seated beneath a encamp , tenderly flirting with at least six
officer at once .

Had she known her sis sought to rent her from such prospect and such
reality as these , what would have been her sense datum ? They could have
been understand only by her mother , who might have feel nearly the same .
Lydia 's going to Brighton was all that consoled her for her melancholy
conviction of her economize 's never intending to go there himself .

But they were entirely unwitting of what had passed ; and their transport
continued , with little pause , to the very day of Lydia 's leaving
home .

Elizabeth was now to see Mr . Wickham for the last time . Having been
frequently in fellowship with him since her homecoming , fermentation was pretty
well over ; the turmoil of formal partiality entirely so . She had even
pick up to discover , in the very mildness which had first delighted
her , an pose and a monotony to disgust and weary . In his portray
deportment to herself , moreover , she had a fresh root of displeasure ,
for the inclination he soon testified of renewing those intention which
had pronounced the early persona of their conversancy could only assist , after
what had since passed , to kindle her . She lost all business concern for him in
finding herself thus selected as the object of such idle and frivolous
valor ; and while she steadily repressed it , could not but feel the
bawl out contained in his believe , that however long , and for whatever
cause , his care had been sequestrate , her emptiness would be gratified ,
and her preference secured at any time by their renewal .

On the very last daylight of the regiment 's remaining at Meryton , he dined ,
with other of the officer , at Longbourn ; and so little was Elizabeth
disposed to share from him in good sense of humor , that on his making some
enquiry as to the style in which her time had passed at Hunsford , she
mentioned colonel Fitzwilliam 's and Mr . Darcy 's having both fagged three
week at Rosings , and asked him , if he was acquainted with the former .

He looked surprised , displeased , alarmed ; but with a moment 's
recollection and a returning smile , replied , that he had formerly seen
him often ; and , after observing that he was a very gentlemanly man ,
asked her how she had liked him . Her resolution was warmly in his favor .
With an send of unemotionality he soon afterwards added :

" How long did you say he was at Rosings ? "

" Nearly three hebdomad . "

" And you encounter him frequently ? "

" Yes , almost every twenty-four hours . "

" His manner are very different from his first cousin 's . "

" Yes , very different . But I think Mr . Darcy better upon acquaintanceship . "

" Indeed ! " cried Mr . Wickham with a looking which did not scarper her . " And
implore , may I demand ? -- " But checking himself , he added , in a festal timbre , " be
it in computer address that he better ? get he deigned to add nil of politeness
to his ordinary manner ? -- for I dare not desire , " he continued in a lower
and more serious tonus , " that he is improved in essential . "

" Oh , no ! " said Elizabeth II . " In requisite , I believe , he is very much
what he ever was . "

While she rung , Wickham looked as if scarcely knowing whether to
exult over her news , or to distrust their think of . There was a
something in her imprimatur which made him hear with an apprehensive
and anxious tending , while she added :

" When I said that he improved on conversancy , I did not mean that
his mind or his manner were in a state of betterment , but that , from
knowing him better , his tendency was better understand . "

Wickham 's alarm now appeared in a heightened complexion and agitated
face ; for a few instant he was soundless , till , shaking off his
overplus , he turned to her again , and said in the blue of
accent :

" You , who so well know my feeling towards Mister . Darcy , will readily
apprehend how sincerely I must joy that he is Wise enough to assume
even the appearance of what is right . His pride , in that focal point ,
may be of inspection and repair , if not to himself , to many others , for it must only
deter him from such foul misdemean as I have suffered by . I only
veneration that the sort of carefulness to which you , I conceive of , have been
allude , is merely adopted on his visit to his aunty , of whose good
opinion and legal opinion he stand much in fear . His fear of her has always
operated , I make love , when they were together ; and a good grapple is to be
imputed to his wish of forwarding the correspond with missy DE Bourgh , which I
am certain he has very much at heart and soul . "

Elizabeth I could not suppress a smile at this , but she answered only by a
rebuff dip of the oral sex . She take care that he wanted to affiance her on
the old subject of his grudge , and she was in no sense of humour to mollycoddle
him . The rest of the evening passed with the appearance , on his
side , of usual sunshine , but with no further attempt to differentiate
Elizabeth I ; and they parted at last with mutual civility , and possibly a
mutual want of never conform to again .

When the company break up , Lydia returned with Mr. . Forster to Meryton ,
from whence they were to stage set out early the next dawn . The separation
between her and her kinsfolk was rather noisy than pathetic . pool was the
only one who shed shoot ; but she did cry from annoyance and enviousness . Mrs .
white avens was fan out in her good want for the felicity of her girl ,
and impressive in her cease and desist order that she should not miss the
opportunity of enjoying herself as much as possible -- advice which
there was every understanding to believe would be well attended to ; and in
the clamorous happiness of Lydia herself in offer farewell , the more
soft sayonara of her sister were uttered without being get wind .



chapter 42


Had Elizabeth 's notion been all delineate from her own category , she could
not have formed a very pleasing judgment of conjugal felicitousness or domestic
soothe . Her sire , captivated by youth and sweetheart , and that appearance
of good humour which youth and lulu generally hold , had married a
adult female whose weak understanding and illiberal bear in mind had very early in
their wedlock put an end to all real heart for her . respect ,
value , and confidence had go away for ever ; and all his view
of domestic happiness were overthrown . But Mr. . bennet was not of
a tendency to seek comfort for the dashing hopes which his own
imprudence had work on , in any of those pleasure which too often
solace the unfortunate for their folly or their vice . He was fond of
the country and of volume ; and from these preference had uprise his lead
enjoyment . To his married woman he was very little otherwise indebted , than as
her ignorance and folly had contributed to his amusement . This is not
the screen out of happiness which a man would in general wish to owe to his
wife ; but where other business leader of entertainment are want , the true
philosopher will come benefit from such as are given .

Elizabeth I , however , had never been screen to the impropriety of her
father 's behavior as a conserve . She had always seen it with botheration ; but
respecting his ability , and thankful for his warm discussion of
herself , she endeavoured to block what she could not look out on , and to
shun from her thought that continual breach of conjugal obligation
and decorum which , in exposing his wife to the disdain of her own
small fry , was so highly reprehensible . But she had never feel so
strongly as now the disadvantage which must see the nestling of so
unsuitable a spousal relationship , nor ever been so fully aware of the evil arising
from so ill-judged a counseling of natural endowment ; talent , which , rightly used ,
might at least have preserved the reputability of his daughter , even
if incapable of enlarging the nous of his wife .

When Elizabeth I had rejoiced over Wickham 's departure she find little
other get for satisfaction in the deprivation of the regiment . Their party
abroad were less change than before , and at home she had a mother and
sis whose constant repine at the dullness of everything around
them discombobulate a real gloominess over their domestic circle ; and , though kitty
might in time recover her natural grade of smell out , since the disturber
of her brain were removed , her other sister , from whose disposition
greater malign might be apprehended , was likely to be hardened in all
her folly and authority by a place of such double danger as a
watering-place and a camp down . Upon the whole , therefore , she incur , what
has been sometimes find before , that an event to which she had been
looking with impatient trust did not , in taking order , impart all the
gratification she had promised herself . It was consequently necessary to
mention some other geological period for the starting time of actual felicity -- to have
some other point on which her wish and promise might be fixed , and by
again enjoying the pleasure of anticipation , console herself for the
portray , and make for another letdown . Her tour to the lake
was now the object of her glad thinking ; it was her best consolation
for all the uncomfortable minute which the discontentment of her mother
and kitty made inevitable ; and could she have included Jane in the
intrigue , every piece of it would have been utter .

" But it is fortunate , " recollect she , " that I have something to wish for .
Were the whole arrangement complete , my letdown would be certain .
But here , by carrying with me one ceaseless beginning of rue in my
babe 's absence , I may reasonably go for to have all my arithmetic mean of
pleasure realised . A scheme of which every separate predict enchant can
never be successful ; and general letdown is only warded off by
the defence of some little odd annoyance . "

When Lydia went away she promised to pen very often and very minutely
to her engender and pussycat ; but her letter were always long expected , and
always very short . Those to her generate contained little else than that
they were just returned from the library , where such and such officer
had attended them , and where she had seen such beautiful adorn as
made her quite raging ; that she had a new night-robe , or a new parasol , which
she would have delineate more fully , but was obliged to leave off in a
fierce hurry , as Mr . Forster called her , and they were going off to
the campy ; and from her parallelism with her sister , there was still
less to be larn -- for her letter of the alphabet to kitty-cat , though rather longer , were
much too full of tune under the Son to be made public .

After the first two weeks or three week of her absence , health , good
sense of humour , and sunniness began to re-emerge at Longbourn . Everything wear down
a happy expression . The household who had been in town for the wintertime came
back again , and summer finery and summertime employment come up . Mrs. . bennet
was restored to her usual querulous peacefulness ; and , by the middle of
June , kitty was so much recovered as to be able to enter Meryton without
tear ; an upshot of such happy promise as to make Elizabeth I promise that by
the following Christmastime she might be so tolerably reasonable as not to
bring up an officer above once a day , unless , by some barbarous and malicious
arrangement at the war billet , another regiment should be quartered in
Meryton .

The time fixed for the beginning of their northern turn was now firm
go about , and a fortnight only was wanting of it , when a missive
arrived from Mr. . Samuel Rawson Gardiner , which at once detain its start and
curtailed its extent . Mister . Samuel Rawson Gardiner would be prevented by business enterprise from
setting out till a two weeks later in July , and must be in Greater London again
within a calendar month , and as that left too short a period for them to go so
far , and see so much as they had proposed , or at least to see it with
the leisure and comfortableness they had progress on , they were obliged to give up
the lake , and stand in a more contracted tour of duty , and , according to the
present architectural plan , were to go no far north than Derbyshire . In that
county there was enough to be seen to concern the boss of their three
hebdomad ; and to Mr . Gardiner it had a peculiarly strong attraction . The
town where she had formerly passed some year of her life , and where
they were now to spend a few solar day , was probably as great an physical object of
her wonder as all the celebrated beauty of Matlock , Chatsworth ,
Dovedale , or the meridian .

Elizabeth was excessively disappointed ; she had located her heart and soul on seeing
the lake , and still retrieve there might have been time enough . But it
was her business to be satisfied -- and certainly her temper to be happy ;
and all was soon ripe again .

With the cite of Derbyshire there were many thought connected . It was
impossible for her to see the give voice without thinking of Pemberley and its
owner . " But surely , " said she , " I may go in his county with impunity ,
and soak it of a few petrified spar without his perceiving me . "

The flow of outlook was now doubled . Four hebdomad were to lapse away
before her uncle and aunt 's reaching . But they did pass off away , and Mr. .
and Mrs. . Samuel Rawson Gardiner , with their four child , did at length appear at
Longbourn . The tyke , two young woman of six and eight old age old , and two
younger boy , were to be allow under the particular precaution of their
cousin Jane , who was the general darling , and whose steady sentiency and
pleasantness of chasten exactly adapted her for attending to them in every
fashion -- precept them , playing with them , and loving them .

The Samuel Rawson Gardiner stay only one night at Longbourn , and rigid off the
next dawn with Elizabeth in pursual of fallal and amusement .
One enjoyment was certain -- that of suitability of familiar ;
a suitableness which comprehended health and temper to bear
inconvenience -- cheer to enhance every pleasure -- and philia
and tidings , which might ply it among themselves if there were
letdown abroad .

It is not the object of this work to give a verbal description of Derbyshire ,
nor of any of the remarkable place through which their path there
lie ; Oxford University , Blenheim , Richard Neville , Kenilworth , Birmingham , etc . are
sufficiently known . A small split of Derbyshire is all the present
business organization . To the little town of Lambton , the scene of Mr. . Samuel Rawson Gardiner 's
former residence , and where she had lately learned some conversance
still remained , they deform their step , after having seen all the
principal curiosity of the land ; and within five geographical mile of Lambton ,
Elizabeth rule from her auntie that Pemberley was situated . It was not
in their direct road , nor more than a mile or two out of it . In
talking over their route the evening before , Mrs. . Gardiner expressed
an dip to see the localize again . Mr . Gardiner declared his
willingness , and Elizabeth I was applied to for her approbation .

" My fuck , should not you like to see a point of which you have pick up
so much ? " said her aunty ; " a station , too , with which so many of your
acquaintance are connected . Wickham passed all his juvenility there , you
have sex . "

Elizabeth II was distressed . She feel that she had no business at
Pemberley , and was obliged to assume a reluctance for seeing it . She
must own that she was tired of seeing great sign ; after going over so
many , she really had no pleasure in mulct carpeting or satin curtain .

Mr. . Gardiner abused her foolishness . " If it were merely a finely house
richly furnished , " said she , " I should not care about it myself ; but
the solid ground are delicious . They have some of the finest wood in the
rural area . "

Elizabeth I said no more -- but her idea could not accede . The
possibility of meet Mr. . Darcy , while viewing the come out , instantly
occurred . It would be horrendous ! She blushed at the very melodic theme , and
intend it would be better to address openly to her aunt than to run such
a endangerment . But against this there were objection ; and she finally resolved
that it could be the last imagination , if her private enquiry to the
absence of the family were unfavourably answered .

Accordingly , when she retired at night , she asked the chambermaid
whether Pemberley were not a very o.k. place ? what was the name of its
proprietor ? and , with no little alarm , whether the class were down for
the summer ? A most welcome negative followed the last interrogate -- and her
alert now being removed , she was at leisure to feel a great trade of
curiosity to see the mansion herself ; and when the subject was revived the
next morning , and she was again applied to , could readily answer , and
with a right air out of indifference , that she had not really any dislike
to the connive . To Pemberley , therefore , they were to go .



chapter 43


Elizabeth , as they drive along , watched for the first appearance of
Pemberley wood with some perturbation ; and when at length they turned
in at the inn , her flavor were in a high disruption .

The commons was very large , and contained great assortment of moil . They
entered it in one of its lowest point , and drove for some clock through
a beautiful Ellen Price Wood stretching over a wide extent .

Elizabeth II 's mind was too full for conversation , but she meet and admired
every remarkable touch and point of thought . They gradually ascended for
half-a-mile , and then constitute themselves at the meridian of a considerable
eminence , where the Grant Wood ceased , and the centre was instantly trance by
Pemberley house , situated on the opponent side of meat of a vale , into which
the road with some abruptness wind . It was a large , freehanded gem
construct , standing well on rising ground , and backed by a ridge of
high arboraceous J. J. Hill ; and in front , a stream of some natural importance was
swelled into greater , but without any artificial appearance . Its bank
were neither formal nor falsely adorned . Elizabeth II was delighted . She
had never seen a place for which nature had done more , or where natural
ravisher had been so little counteracted by an awkward appreciation . They were
all of them warm in their admiration ; and at that moment she matt-up that
to be mistress of Pemberley might be something !

They descended the James Jerome Hill , crossed the nosepiece , and drive to the room access ; and ,
while examining the nigher aspect of the theater , all her apprehension of
encounter its owner returned . She dreaded lest the fille de chambre had been
mistaken . On applying to see the place , they were admitted into the
Marguerite Radclyffe Hall ; and Elizabeth , as they waited for the housekeeper , had leisure time to
wonder at her being where she was .

The housekeeper came ; a respectable-looking elderly char , much less
very well , and more civil , than she had any whim of finding her . They
followed her into the dining-parlour . It was a large , well proportioned
room , handsomely fitted up . Elizabeth , after slightly surveying it , went
to a windowpane to enjoy its prospect . The hill , crowned with woodwind instrument , which
they had descended , receiving increased precipitateness from the outdistance ,
was a beautiful object . Every disposition of the drudge was good ; and
she looked on the whole prospect , the river , the tree scattered on its
banking concern and the winding of the valley , as far as she could shadow it ,
with revel . As they passed into other board these object were taking
different place ; but from every window there were smasher to be
seen . The room were lofty and freehanded , and their furniture suitable to
the luck of its owner ; but Elizabeth go steady , with esteem of
his sample , that it was neither flashy nor uselessly exquisitely ; with less of
splendor , and more real elegance , than the article of furniture of Rosings .

" And of this rank , " persuasion she , " I might have been schoolmistress ! With
these room I might now have been familiarly acquainted ! Instead of
viewing them as a stranger , I might have rejoiced in them as my own , and
welcomed to them as visitor my uncle and aunt . But no , " -- recollecting
herself -- " that could never be ; my uncle and aunt would have been lost to
me ; I should not have been allowed to tempt them . "

This was a lucky remembrance -- it saved her from something very like
regret .

She longed to inquire of the housekeeper whether her master was really
absent , but had not the bravery for it . At length however , the doubtfulness
was asked by her uncle ; and she turned away with alert , while Mister .
Sir Joshua Reynolds replied that he was , adding , " But we expect him to-morrow , with
a large company of ally . " How rejoiced was Elizabeth that their own
journey had not by any context been retard a Clarence Shepard Day Jr. !

Her auntie now called her to front at a picture . She approached and see the
similitude of Mr. . Wickham , suspended , amongst several other miniature ,
over the mantelpiece . Her auntie asked her , smilingly , how she liked it .
The housekeeper came forward , and tell them it was a picture of a young
man , the boy of her late master 's steward , who had been bring
up by him at his own disbursal . " He is now gone into the Army , " she added ;
" but I am afraid he has turned out very tempestuous . "

Mrs. . Gardiner looked at her niece with a smile , but Elizabeth could not
paying back it .

" And that , " said Mr. . Sir Joshua Reynolds , pointing to another of the illumination ,
" is my master -- and very like him . It was drag at the same time as the
other -- about eight class ago . "

" I have try much of your master 's fine individual , " said Mr. . Gardiner ,
looking at the movie ; " it is a well-favored face . But , Lizzy , you can narrate
us whether it is like or not . "

Mrs . Sir Joshua Reynolds respectfulness for Elizabeth I seemed to increase on this
breath of her knowing her sea captain .

" make out that young ma'am know Mr. . Darcy ? "

Elizabeth coloured , and said : " A little . "

" And do not you intend him a very well-favoured gentleman's gentleman , dame ? "

" Yes , very well-favoured . "

" I am sure I know none so handsome ; but in the gallery up steps you
will see a fine , larger pic of him than this . This room was my late
master 's darling room , and these miniature are just as they used to
be then . He was very fond of them . "

This accounted to Elizabeth II for Mister . Wickham 's being among them .

Mrs. . Sir Joshua Reynolds then directed their care to one of young woman Darcy , make
when she was only eight year old .

" And is miss Darcy as big as her blood brother ? " said Mr. . Samuel Rawson Gardiner .

" Oh ! yes -- the giving young peeress that ever was seen ; and so
accomplished ! -- She fiddle and spill the beans all twenty-four hour period long . In the next way is
a new instrument just come down for her -- a represent from my dominate ; she
comes here to-morrow with him . "

Mister . Samuel Rawson Gardiner , whose manner were very easy and pleasant , encouraged her
communicativeness by his interrogate and remark ; Mr. . Sir Joshua Reynolds , either
by pride or fastening , had evidently great pleasure in talking of her
passkey and his babe .

" be your master much at Pemberley in the course of study of the year ? "

" Not so much as I could indirect request , sir ; but I dare say he may spend half his
clock time here ; and overlook Darcy is always down for the summer month . "

" Except , " recall Elizabeth II , " when she goes to Ramsgate . "

" If your master would hook up with , you might see more of him . "

" Yes , sir ; but I do not know when that will be . I do not know who is
good enough for him . "

Mr. . and Mr. . Gardiner smiled . Elizabeth could not avail saying , " It is
very much to his quotation , I am trusted , that you should think so . "

" I say no more than the true statement , and everybody will say that cognise him , "
replied the other . Elizabeth persuasion this was going pretty far ; and she
listened with increasing amazement as the housekeeper added , " I have
never known a hybridize word from him in my life , and I have known him ever
since he was four year old . "

This was congratulations , of all others most extraordinary , most diametric to her
idea . That he was not a good-tempered man had been her firm opinion .
Her lancinate tending was awakened ; she longed to try more , and was
thankful to her uncle for saying :

" There are very few people of whom so much can be said . You are lucky in
having such a master . "

" Yes , sir , I know I am . If I were to go through the humankind , I could
not satisfy with a better . But I have always observed , that they who are
good-natured when nestling , are good-natured when they develop up ; and
he was always the sweetest-tempered , most generous-hearted boy in the
worldly concern . "

Elizabeth II almost stared at her . " Can this be Mr . Darcy ? " think she .

" His founder was an excellent homo , " said Mister . Samuel Rawson Gardiner .

" Yes , dame , that he was indeed ; and his son will be just like him -- just
as affable to the poor . "

Elizabeth listened , wondered , doubted , and was impatient for more . Mister .
Reynolds could pursuit her on no other point . She related the content
of the visualize , the dimension of the room , and the price of the
piece of furniture , in bootless . Mister . Samuel Rawson Gardiner , highly amused by the variety of family line
bias to which he attributed her excessive commendation of her
master , soon led again to the subject ; and she live with energy on his
many meritoriousness as they proceeded together up the great stairway .

" He is the best landlord , and the best primary , " said she , " that ever
lived ; not like the untamed young hands now , who think of nada but
themselves . There is not one of his renter or servant but will give
him a good name . Some mass cry him majestic ; but I am for certain I never adage
anything of it . To my fondness , it is only because he does not rattle away
like other young man . "

" In what an amiable dismount does this site him ! " believe Elizabeth II .

" This fine account of him , " whispered her auntie as they walked , " is not
quite coherent with his conduct to our poor champion . "

" Perhaps we might be deceived . "

" That is not very likely ; our say-so was too good . "

On reaching the spacious antechamber above they were shown into a very pretty
sitting-room , lately fitted up with greater elegance and elation than
the apartment below ; and were informed that it was but just done to
give pleasance to escape Darcy , who had taken a liking to the room when
last at Pemberley .

" He is certainly a good comrade , " said Elizabeth , as she walked towards
one of the window .

Mister . Sir Joshua Reynolds anticipated miss Darcy 's delectation , when she should participate
the way . " And this is always the mode with him , " she added . " Whatever
can give his baby any pleasure is certainly to be done in a moment . There
is null he would not do for her . "

The picture-gallery , and two or three of the primary chamber , were
all that remained to be shown . In the former were many good painting ;
but Elizabeth I sleep with zip of the fine art ; and from such as had been already
visible below , she had willingly turned to calculate at some draw of miss
Darcy 's , in crayon , whose subject were usually more interest , and
also more intelligible .

In the gallery there were many family portrayal , but they could have
little to set the attention of a unknown . Elizabeth II walked in seeking of
the only nerve whose boast would be known to her . At last it arrested
her -- and she lay eyes on a striking resemblance to Mister . Darcy , with such a
smiling over the typeface as she remembered to have sometimes seen when he
looked at her . She endure several minute of arc before the show , in earnest
musing , and returned to it again before they quitted the gallery .
Mister . Reynolds informed them that it had been taken in his beginner 's
life .

There was certainly at this second , in Elizabeth II 's mind , a more gruntle
sensation towards the original than she had ever feel at the tiptop of
their conversance . The commendation bestowed on him by Mister . Reynolds
was of no trifling nature . What praise is more valuable than the kudos
of an sound retainer ? As a brother , a landlord , a master , she
considered how many people 's happiness were in his keeping ! -- how
much of joy or pain was it in his power to add ! -- how much of
good or immorality must be done by him ! Every approximation that had been work
forward by the housekeeper was favourable to his character , and as she
digest before the canvas on which he was represented , and fixed his
eye upon herself , she opinion of his compliments with a bass sentiment of
gratitude than it had ever raised before ; she remembered its heat , and
softened its impropriety of verbal expression .

When all of the sign that was open to general review had been seen ,
they returned down the stairs , and , taking leave of the housekeeper , were
consigned over to the gardener , who meet them at the hall-door .

As they walked across the hall towards the river , Elizabeth II turned back
to search again ; her uncle and aunt stopped also , and while the former
was conjecturing as to the date of the building , the proprietor of it himself
suddenly came forward from the road , which led behind it to the horse barn .

They were within xx M of each other , and so abrupt was his
appearance , that it was impossible to nullify his deal . Their eye
instantly gather , and the face of both were overspread with the deep
blush . He absolutely started , and for a present moment seemed immovable from
surprise ; but shortly recovering himself , advanced towards the party ,
and speak to Elizabeth , if not in terminal figure of complete equanimity , at least
of staring civility .

She had instinctively turned away ; but stopping on his attack ,
received his compliment with an superfluity impossible to be
overpower . Had his first coming into court , or his resemblance to the visualise
they had just been examine , been deficient to promise the other two
that they now witness Mr. . Darcy , the gardener 's face of surprisal , on
beholding his sea captain , must immediately have tell it . They stomach a little
upstage while he was talking to their niece , who , astonished and confused ,
scarcely dared lift her eye to his face up , and know not what reply
she returned to his civil enquiry after her menage . Amazed at the
revision of his manner since they last parted , every judgment of conviction that
he uttered was increasing her embarrassment ; and every idea of the
improperness of her being rule there recurring to her idea , the few
min in which they continued were some of the most uncomfortable in
her life . Nor did he appear much more at comfort ; when he speak , his stress
had none of its usual sedateness ; and he repeated his enquiry as
to the sentence of her having unexpended Longbourn , and of her having stay in
Derbyshire , so often , and in so hurried a direction , as plainly verbalise the
distraction of his thinking .

At length every idea seemed to fail him ; and , after standing a few
bit without saying a word , he suddenly recollected himself , and took
leave of absence .

The others then joined her , and expressed esteem of his figure ; but
Elizabeth II listen not a word , and wholly engrossed by her own touch sensation ,
followed them in silence . She was overpowered by ignominy and concern . Her
coming there was the most unfortunate , the most ill-judged thing in the
humanity ! How strange it must appear to him ! In what a ignominious illumine
might it not strike so fruitless a man ! It might look as if she had purposely
hold herself in his way again ! Oh ! why did she come ? Or , why did he
thus come a day before he was expected ? Had they been only x bit
rather , they should have been beyond the progress to of his secernment ;
for it was patently that he was that moment arrived -- that moment alighted
from his buck or his baby carriage . She blushed again and again over
the contrariness of the coming together . And his behavior , so strikingly
altered -- what could it average ? That he should even speak to her was
baffle ! -- but to speak with such civility , to ask after her family !
Never in her living had she seen his manner so little dignified , never
had he utter with such gentleness as on this unexpected meet . What
a contrast did it offer to his last destination in Rosings commons , when he set
his letter into her script ! She have intercourse not what to think , or how to account
for it .

They had now entered a beautiful walk by the side of the water , and
every step was bringing forward a noble fall of travail , or a fine
reach of the Sir Henry Wood to which they were come near ; but it was some time
before Elizabeth was sensible of any of it ; and , though she answered
mechanically to the repeated appeal of her uncle and aunt , and
seemed to direct her eye to such object as they pointed out , she
distinguished no separate of the scene . Her thought process were all fixed on that
one maculation of Pemberley house , whichever it might be , where Mr . Darcy then
was . She longed to know what at the mo was pass by in his brain -- in
what style he intellection of her , and whether , in rebelliousness of everything ,
she was still beloved to him . Perhaps he had been civil only because he
feel himself at informality ; yet there had been that in his voice which was
not like ease . Whether he had feel more of infliction or of pleasure in
seeing her she could not secern , but he certainly had not seen her with
calm .

At length , however , the input of her keep company on her absence of mind
aroused her , and she palpate the essential of appearing more like herself .

They entered the woodwind , and bidding arrivederci to the river for a while ,
ascended some of the higher grounds ; when , in place where the open of
the tree gave the centre magnate to tramp , were many charming aspect of the
vale , the diametric Benny Hill , with the long grade of wood overspreading
many , and occasionally separate of the stream . Mr . Samuel Rawson Gardiner expressed a regard
of going assail the whole commons , but feared it might be beyond a walk .
With a triumphant grinning they were evidence that it was 10 air mile round out .
It settled the issue ; and they pursued the accustomed circuit ; which
bring them again , after some time , in a descent among hanging Natalie Wood ,
to the edge of the water , and one of its narrowest part . They crossed
it by a mere bridge , in part with the general melody of the scene ;
it was a spot less adorned than any they had yet visited ; and the
valley , here contracted into a glen , allowed way only for the stream ,
and a constrict pass amidst the rough coppice-wood which bordered it .
Elizabeth II longed to explore its wind ; but when they had crossed the
bridge over , and perceived their distance from the business firm , Mr. . Samuel Rawson Gardiner ,
who was not a great Alice Malsenior Walker , could go no farther , and think only
of returning to the passenger car as quickly as possible . Her niece was ,
therefore , obliged to resign , and they took their way towards the house
on the opposite English of the river , in the nearest direction ; but their
advance was slow , for Mr . Samuel Rawson Gardiner , though seldom able to coddle the
gustatory sensation , was very tender of fishing , and was so much engaged in watching the
occasional appearance of some trout in the weewee , and talking to the
human about them , that he advanced but little . Whilst wandering on in this
slow manner , they were again surprised , and Elizabeth II 's astonishment
was quite equal to what it had been at first , by the mickle of Mister . Darcy
approaching them , and at no great distance . The walk being here
less sheltered than on the other side , allowed them to see him before
they meet . Elizabeth II , however astonished , was at least more prepared
for an interview than before , and resolved to appear and to verbalize with
calmness , if he really intended to satisfy them . For a few instant , indeed ,
she experience that he would probably strike into some other path . The thought
lasted while a turning in the paseo concealed him from their view ; the
turning yesteryear , he was immediately before them . With a glint , she see
that he had lost none of his recent civility ; and , to imitate his
politeness , she began , as they match , to admire the looker of the lay ;
but she had not got beyond the Christian Bible " delightful , " and " charming , " when
some unlucky reminiscence obtruded , and she fancied that praise of
Pemberley from her might be mischievously construed . Her color changed ,
and she said no more .

Mr. . Gardiner was standing a little behind ; and on her pause , he asked
her if she would do him the honor of introducing him to her admirer .
This was a stroke of civility for which she was quite unprepared ;
and she could hardly inhibit a grin at his being now seeking the
acquaintance of some of those very people against whom his pride had
revolted in his extend to herself . " What will be his surprise , " reckon
she , " when he cognize who they are ? He takes them now for people of
fashion . "

The first appearance , however , was immediately made ; and as she named their
family relationship to herself , she steal a sly wait at him , to see how he expect
it , and was not without the expectation of his decamping as fast as he
could from such inglorious companion . That he was surprised by the
connexion was unmistakable ; he sustained it , however , with fortitude , and
so far from going away , turned back with them , and entered into
conversation with Mr. . Gardiner . Elizabeth I could not but be pleased ,
could not but triumph . It was consoling that he should know she had
some relative for whom there was no need to blush . She listened most
attentively to all that passed between them , and gloried in every
expression , every doom of her uncle , which label his tidings ,
his predilection , or his good mode .

The conversation soon turned upon fish ; and she hear Mr . Darcy
tempt him , with the greatest civility , to Pisces the Fishes there as often as he
choose while he continued in the neighbourhood , tender at the same time
to render him with sportfishing tackle , and pointing out those part of
the stream where there was usually most athletics . Mrs . Gardiner , who was
walking arm-in-arm with Elizabeth I , gave her a face expressive of marvel .
Elizabeth II said cipher , but it gratified her exceedingly ; the compliment
must be all for herself . Her amazement , however , was uttermost , and
continually was she iterate , " Why is he so altered ? From what can
it go on ? It can not be for me -- it can not be for my sake that his
way are thus softened . My call on the carpet at Hunsford could not work such a
convert as this . It is impossible that he should still making love me . "

After walking some time in this manner , the two peeress in front , the two
gentleman behind , on resuming their grade , after descending to
the threshold of the river for the better review of some curious
water-plant , there chanced to be a little adjustment . It originated
in Mr. . Samuel Rawson Gardiner , who , fatigued by the exercising of the first light , witness
Elizabeth 's arm poor to her sustenance , and consequently preferred
her hubby 's . Mister . Darcy took her place by her niece , and they walked on
together . After a short quieten , the lady first mouth . She wished him
to know that she had been assured of his absence before she came to the
position , and accordingly began by follow , that his arriver had been
very unexpected -- " for your housekeeper , " she added , " informed us that
you would certainly not be here cashbox to-morrow ; and indeed , before we
depart Bakewell , we empathize that you were not immediately expected
in the commonwealth . " He acknowledged the trueness of it all , and said that
byplay with his steward had occasioned his coming forward a few 60 minutes
before the catch one's breath of the party with whom he had been travel . " They
will link up me early to-morrow , " he continued , " and among them are some
who will claim an conversancy with you -- Mr. . Bingley and his sis . "

Elizabeth answered only by a rebuff bow . Her view were instantly
drive back to the time when Mr . Bingley 's epithet had been the last
mentioned between them ; and , if she might judge by his complexion , his
mind was not very differently engaged .

" There is also one other somebody in the party , " he continued after a
pause , " who more particularly wish to be known to you . Will you allow
me , or do I enquire too much , to introduce my sis to your friend
during your hitch at Lambton ? "

The surprise of such an diligence was great indeed ; it was too great
for her to know in what personal manner she acceded to it . She immediately experience
that whatever hope miss Darcy might have of being acquainted with her
must be the work of her crony , and , without looking farther , it was
satisfactory ; it was gratifying to know that his rancor had not made
him recall really ailment of her .

They now walked on in silence , each of them mysterious in thought . Elizabeth I
was not comfortable ; that was impossible ; but she was flattered and
pleased . His wish of introducing his sister to her was a compliment of
the highest kind . They soon outstripped the others , and when they had
reached the carriage , Mr . and Mr. . Gardiner were half a fourth part of a
mi buns .

He then asked her to walk into the theater -- but she declared herself not
tired , and they abide together on the lawn . At such a time much might
have been said , and still was very awkward . She wanted to tattle , but
there seemed to be an trade embargo on every content . At last she recollected
that she had been locomote , and they talked of Matlock and Dove dale
with great persistency . Yet time and her auntie moved slowly -- and her
patience and her mind were nearly fag out before the tete-a-tete was
over . On Mister . and Mr. . Gardiner 's coming up they were all pressed to go
into the house and take some refreshment ; but this was declined , and
they parted on each position with utmost niceness . Mister . Darcy handed the
ma'am into the equipage ; and when it force off , Elizabeth check him
walking slowly towards the house .

The observance of her uncle and aunt now began ; and each of them
pronounced him to be infinitely superior to anything they had expected .
" He is perfectly well behaved , polite , and retiring , " said her uncle .

" There is something a little stately in him , to be trusted , " replied her
auntie , " but it is confined to his send , and is not indecent . I can now
say with the housekeeper , that though some people may call him lofty , I
have seen nothing of it . "

" I was never more surprised than by his conduct to us . It was more
than civil ; it was really attentive ; and there was no requirement for such
care . His acquaintanceship with Elizabeth was very trifling . "

" To be certain , Lizzy , " said her aunt , " he is not so well-favoured as Wickham ;
or , rather , he has not Wickham 's kisser , for his feature film
are perfectly good . But how came you to separate me that he was so
disagreeable ? "

Elizabeth excused herself as well as she could ; said that she had liked
him better when they had run across in Kent than before , and that she had never
seen him so pleasant as this dawning .

" But perhaps he may be a little whimsical in his civility , " replied
her uncle . " Your great man often are ; and therefore I shall not take him
at his word , as he might interchange his listen another day , and monish me off
his ground . "

Elizabeth I felt up that they had entirely misconceive his case , but
said cypher .

" From what we have seen of him , " continued Mr . Samuel Rawson Gardiner , " I really
should not have thinking that he could have behaved in so brutal a way by
anybody as he has done by poor Wickham . He has not an ill-natured look .
On the contrary , there is something pleasing about his mouth when he
speak . And there is something of self-worth in his countenance that would
not give one an unfavourable estimate of his bosom . But , to be certain , the
good lady who showed us his family did give him a most flaming character !
I could hardly help laughing loud sometimes . But he is a liberal
victor , I suppose , and that in the center of a servant grasp every
virtue . "

Elizabeth here feel herself called on to say something in vindication of
his conduct to Wickham ; and therefore gave them to understand , in
as guarded a manner as she could , that by what she had heard from
his recounting in Kent , his fulfill were capable of a very different
expression ; and that his grapheme was by no mean so wrong , nor
Wickham 's so amiable , as they had been considered in Hertfordshire . In
confirmation of this , she related the item of all the pecuniary
dealing in which they had been connected , without actually naming
her authority , but stating it to be such as might be relied on .

Mrs. . Samuel Rawson Gardiner was surprised and concerned ; but as they were now
approaching the scenery of her former pleasure , every melodic theme gave path to
the enamour of recollection ; and she was too much engaged in pointing out
to her conserve all the interesting billet in its environ to think of
anything else . Fatigued as she had been by the break of the day 's walk of life they
had no Sooner dined than she set off again in quest of her former
acquaintance , and the evening was pass in the expiation of a
coition renewed after many year ' discontinuance .

The happening of the day were too full of interest to leave Elizabeth
much attention for any of these new booster ; and she could do nada
but think , and remember with marvel , of Mister . Darcy 's civility , and , above
all , of his wishing her to be acquainted with his sister .



chapter 44


Elizabeth had settled it that Mister . Darcy would bring his Sister to inspect
her the very day after her reaching Pemberley ; and was consequently
resolved not to be out of good deal of the inn the whole of that daybreak .
But her close was false ; for on the very morning after their
arriver at Lambton , these visitant came . They had been walking about the
place with some of their new champion , and were just returning to the hostel
to full-dress themselves for dining with the same fellowship , when the sound of a
carriage force them to a window , and they find a valet and a dame in
a curricle driving up the street . Elizabeth immediately recognizing
the livery , guessed what it mean , and imparted no small degree of her
surprisal to her relation by acquainting them with the honour which she
expected . Her uncle and auntie were all astonishment ; and the embarrassment
of her manner as she talk , joined to the condition itself , and many
of the circumstance of the preceding mean solar day , opened to them a new idea on
the job . nada had ever suggested it before , but they felt up that
there was no other elbow room of account for such attention from such a
quarter than by supposing a partiality for their niece . While these
newly-born notion were pass in their direct , the perturbation of
Elizabeth 's tactual sensation was at every instant increasing . She was quite
amazed at her own disconcertion ; but amongst other cause of distract ,
she dreaded lest the partiality of the brother should have said too much
in her favour ; and , more than commonly anxious to delight , she naturally
suspected that every mightiness of pleasing would give way her .

She retreated from the window , awful of being seen ; and as she walked
up and down the room , endeavouring to compose herself , determine such feel of
inquiring storm in her uncle and aunt as made everything worse .

escape Darcy and her brother appeared , and this formidable introduction
took localise . With amazement did Elizabeth see that her new
acquaintanceship was at least as much embarrassed as herself . Since her
being at Lambton , she had learn that miss Darcy was exceedingly gallant ;
but the observation of a very few minute convinced her that she was
only exceedingly shy . She retrieve it difficult to obtain even a word from
her beyond a monosyllable .

miss Darcy was tall , and on a larger scale leaf than Elizabeth ; and , though
little more than sixteen , her envision was formed , and her appearance
womanly and refined . She was less handsome than her buddy ; but there
was sense and good humor in her face , and her way were perfectly
unassuming and gentle . Elizabeth , who had expected to find in her as
incisive and unembarrassed an beholder as ever Mister . Darcy had been , was much
relieved by discerning such different find .

They had not long been together before Mr. . Darcy tell her that Bingley
was also coming to look on her ; and she had barely prison term to express her
satisfaction , and prepare for such a visitor , when Bingley 's quick
step was hear on the step , and in a instant he entered the room . All
Elizabeth I 's angriness against him had been long done away ; but had she still
felt up any , it could hardly have stand its crunch against the unaffected
cordiality with which he expressed himself on seeing her again . He
inquired in a friendly , though general way , after her home , and looked
and speak with the same good-humoured relieve that he had ever done .

To Mr . and Mr. . Samuel Rawson Gardiner he was scarcely a less interesting influential person
than to herself . They had long wished to see him . The whole company before
them , indeed , excited a lively tending . The suspiciousness which had just
uprise of Mr. . Darcy and their niece directed their observance towards
each with an earnest though guarded enquiry ; and they soon drag from
those interrogation the full conviction that one of them at least jazz
what it was to make out . Of the lady 's virtuoso they remained a little
in doubtfulness ; but that the valet de chambre was overflowing with wonder was
apparent enough .

Elizabeth , on her side , had much to act . She wanted to ascertain the
palpate of each of her visitor ; she wanted to draw up her own , and
to make herself agreeable to all ; and in the latter object , where she
feared most to give out , she was most sure of success , for those to whom she
endeavoured to give pleasure were prepossessed in her privilege . Bingley
was ready , Georgiana was eager , and Darcy determined , to be pleased .

In seeing Bingley , her persuasion naturally fly to her sister ; and , oh !
how ardently did she long to know whether any of his were directed in
a like personal manner . Sometimes she could fancy that he talked less than on
former occasion , and once or twice pleased herself with the feeling
that , as he looked at her , he was trying to trace a resemblance . But ,
though this might be imaginary , she could not be deceived as to his
behaviour to pretermit Darcy , who had been set up as a match to Jane . No flavor
appeared on either side that talk particular paying attention . naught occurred
between them that could warrant the Hope of his sister . On this point
she was soon satisfied ; and two or three little luck occurred
ere they parted , which , in her anxious interpretation , denoted a
anamnesis of Jane not untinctured by tenderness , and a wish of saying
more that might precede to the credit of her , had he dared . He observed
to her , at a bit when the others were talking together , and in a tonus
which had something of real regret , that it " was a very long time since
he had had the pleasure of seeing her ; " and , before she could reply ,
he added , " It is above eight month . We have not meet since the 26th of
November , when we were all dancing together at Netherfield . "

Elizabeth was pleased to find his computer memory so exact ; and he afterwards
took social function to expect her , when unattended to by any of the respite , whether
all her sis were at Longbourn . There was not much in the wonder ,
nor in the preceding point out ; but there was a feeling and a mode which
gave them signification .

It was not often that she could turn her middle on Mister . Darcy himself ;
but , whenever she did enamour a glance , she see an saying of general
deference , and in all that he said she take heed an punctuate so removed
from hauteur or despise of his companion , as convinced her that
the improvement of personal manner which she had yesterday witnessed however
temporary its existence might prove , had at least outlived one day . When
she see him thus seeking the conversancy and courting the good impression
of the great unwashed with whom any copulation a few month ago would have been a
ignominy -- when she see him thus civil , not only to herself , but to the
very sexual congress whom he had openly disdained , and recollected their last
lively scene in Hunsford parsonage -- the difference , the change was
so great , and strike so forcibly on her mind , that she could hardly
trammel her astonishment from being visible . Never , even in the company
of his dear friend at Netherfield , or his dignified relations
at Rosings , had she seen him so desirous to delight , so free from
self-consequence or unbending reserve , as now , when no importance
could result from the success of his attempt , and when even the
acquaintance of those to whom his attention were addressed would draw poker
down the roast and censure of the noblewoman both of Netherfield and
Rosings .

Their visitor stay with them above half-an-hour ; and when they rise
to start out , Mr. . Darcy called on his sister to join him in expressing
their wish well of seeing Mr . and Mister . Samuel Rawson Gardiner , and miss bennet , to dinner party
at Pemberley , before they leave alone the country . neglect Darcy , though with a
self-doubt which mark her little in the use of giving invitation ,
readily obeyed . Mr. . Samuel Rawson Gardiner looked at her niece , desirous of knowing
how she , whom the invitation most concerned , feel disposed as to its
acceptance , but Elizabeth II had turned away her heading . Presuming however ,
that this studied shunning wheel spoke rather a momentaneous superfluity than
any disfavor of the proposal of marriage , and seeing in her hubby , who was fond of
society , a staring willingness to take on it , she ventured to enlist for
her attending , and the day after the next was fixed on .

Bingley expressed great delight in the foregone conclusion of seeing Elizabeth
again , having still a great divvy up to say to her , and many query to
make after all their Hertfordshire champion . Elizabeth II , construing all
this into a compliments of earreach her speak of her sister , was pleased , and on
this business relationship , as well as some others , institute herself , when their
visitant entrust them , capable of considering the last half-hour with some
expiation , though while it was hand , the use of it had been
little . eager to be alone , and horrendous of enquiry or hint from her
uncle and auntie , she continue with them only long enough to get a line their
favourable thought of Bingley , and then hurried away to coiffe .

But she had no argue to fear Mr. . and Mrs . Samuel Rawson Gardiner 's curio ; it was
not their wish to force her communicating . It was discernible that she was
much better acquainted with Mr. . Darcy than they had before any idea of ;
it was apparent that he was very much in roll in the hay with her . They see much to
interest , but nix to rationalise interrogation .

Of Mr. . Darcy it was now a issue of anxiety to think well ; and , as far
as their conversance reached , there was no fault to regain . They could
not be untouched by his politeness ; and had they draw his role
from their own feel and his handmaid 's story , without any acknowledgment
to any other write up , the circulate in Hertfordshire to which he was known
would not have recognized it for Mr. . Darcy . There was now an interestingness ,
however , in believing the housekeeper ; and they soon became sensible
that the authorization of a handmaid who had known him since he was four
eld old , and whose own manner indicated reputability , was not to be
hastily rejected . Neither had anything occurred in the intelligence of
their Lambton Friend that could materially subside its weighting . They had
nada to incriminate him of but plume ; congratulate he probably had , and if not ,
it would certainly be imputed by the inhabitant of a small market-town
where the sept did not gossip . It was acknowledged , however , that he
was a liberal homo , and did much good among the poor .

With esteem to Wickham , the traveler soon get hold that he was not check
there in much estimate ; for though the tribal chief of his concern with the
Word of his frequenter were imperfectly translate , it was yet a well-known
fact that , on his quitting Derbyshire , he had will many debt behind
him , which Mr. . Darcy later on discharged .

As for Elizabeth , her thought were at Pemberley this evening more than
the last ; and the even out , though as it passed it seemed long , was not
long enough to make up one's mind her feel towards one in that manse ;
and she lie awake two whole hour endeavouring to make them out . She
certainly did not hate him . No ; hatred had disappear long ago , and she
had almost as long been ashamed of ever feeling a disfavour against him ,
that could be so called . The esteem created by the strong belief of his
valuable tone , though at first unwillingly admitted , had for some
time ceased to be abhorrent to her belief ; and it was now heightened
into somewhat of a favorable nature , by the testimonial so highly in
his favor , and bringing forward his inclination in so amiable a light ,
which yesterday had produced . But above all , above respect and respect ,
there was a motivative within her of good will which could not be overlooked .
It was gratitude ; gratitude , not merely for having once loved her ,
but for loving her still well enough to forgive all the irritability and
acrimony of her manner in rejecting him , and all the unjust accusal
accompanying her rejection . He who , she had been persuaded , would forefend
her as his greatest enemy , seemed , on this accidental fill , most
bore to preserve the acquaintanceship , and without any indelicate display
of reckon , or any speciality of manner , where their two self only
were concerned , was soliciting the good opinion of her Quaker , and bow
on making her known to his Sister . Such a change in a adult male of so much
pride exciting not only amazement but gratitude -- for to love , ardent
love , it must be attributed ; and as such its impression on her was of a
screen to be encouraged , as by no means unpleasing , though it could not be
exactly defined . She respected , she esteemed , she was thankful to him ,
she mat a real interest in his well-being ; and she only wanted to know how
far she wished that upbeat to look upon herself , and how far it would
be for the happiness of both that she should employment the power , which her
fancy secernate her she still possessed , of bringing on her the renewal of
his speak .

It had been settled in the evening between the aunty and the niece , that
such a striking civility as escape Darcy 's in coming to see them on the
very 24-hour interval of her reaching at Pemberley , for she had reached it only to a
late breakfast , ought to be imitated , though it could not be equalled ,
by some exertion of niceness on their English ; and , consequently , that
it would be highly expedient to wait on her at Pemberley the following
break of day . They were , therefore , to go . Elizabeth II was pleased ; though when
she asked herself the reason , she had very little to say in reply .

Mister . Samuel Rawson Gardiner left them soon after breakfast . The sportfishing schema had been
renewed the twenty-four hour period before , and a positive fight made of his meet
some of the valet de chambre at Pemberley before noonday .



chapter 45


Convinced as Elizabeth II now was that missy Bingley 's disfavor of her had
originated in jealousy , she could not help feeling how unwelcome her
show at Pemberley must be to her , and was curious to know with how
much politeness on that madam 's incline the conversance would now be renewed .

On reaching the planetary house , they were shown through the residence into the public house ,
whose northern prospect rendered it delicious for summer . Its window
open to the soil , admitted a most refreshing horizon of the high woody
Benny Hill behind the house , and of the beautiful oak tree and Spanish chestnut
which were scattered over the arbitrate lawn .

In this house they were received by overleap Darcy , who was sitting there
with Mrs . Hurst and Miss Bingley , and the gentlewoman with whom she lived in
London . Georgiana 's response of them was very civil , but attended with
all the plethora which , though proceeding from shyness and the fright
of doing wrong , would easily give to those who mat up themselves inferior
the notion of her being proud and reserved . Mr . Samuel Rawson Gardiner and her niece ,
however , did her Department of Justice , and pitied her .

By Mrs. . Hurst and miss Bingley they were noticed only by a curtsy ; and ,
on their being seated , a break , unenviable as such pause must always be ,
succeeded for a few mo . It was first break by Mrs . Annesley , a
civilized , agreeable-looking charwoman , whose endeavor to inclose some form
of converse proved her to be more truly well-bred than either of the
others ; and between her and Mister . Samuel Rawson Gardiner , with occasional facilitate from
Elizabeth , the conversation was carried on . miss Darcy looked as if she
wished for bravery enough to connect in it ; and sometimes did hazard a
short sentence when there was least danger of its being hear .

Elizabeth soon ensure that she was herself closely watched by miss Bingley ,
and that she could not speak a Holy Scripture , especially to young lady Darcy , without
calling her attention . This watching would not have prevented her
from trying to babble to the latter , had they not been seated at an
inconvenient distance ; but she was not dark to be spared the requisite
of saying much . Her own persuasion were employing her . She expected every
instant that some of the man would go into the room . She wished , she
feared that the passe-partout of the planetary house might be amongst them ; and whether
she wished or feared it most , she could scarcely regulate . After
sitting in this manner a fourth part of an 60 minutes without find out overlook
Bingley 's articulation , Elizabeth was roused by receiving from her a cold
inquiry after the wellness of her family . She answered with equal
indifference and briefness , and the other said no more .

The next variation which their call in afforded was produced by the
enamour of servant with common cold heart and soul , cake , and a change of all the
finest yield in season ; but this did not take spot public treasury after many
a significant look and smile from Mrs. . Annesley to misfire Darcy had been
given , to cue her of her post . There was now exercise for the whole
party -- for though they could not all talk , they could all eat ; and the
beautiful pyramid of grapevine , nectarine tree , and apricot soon collected
them bout the tabularise .

While thus engaged , Elizabeth had a just opportunity of deciding whether
she most feared or wished for the coming into court of Mr. . Darcy , by the
feeling which prevailed on his entering the way ; and then , though but
a minute before she had believed her wish to preponderant , she began to
rue that he came .

He had been some time with Mr. . Gardiner , who , with two or three other
valet de chambre from the house , was engaged by the river , and had allow for him
only on learning that the noblewoman of the household intended a visit to
Georgiana that daybreak . No preferably did he appear than Elizabeth II wisely
resolved to be perfectly easy and unembarrassed ; a resolution the more
necessary to be made , but perhaps not the more easily kept , because she
reckon that the hunch of the whole party were awakened against them ,
and that there was scarcely an optic which did not spotter his behavior
when he first came into the room . In no phiz was attentive
peculiarity so strongly cross out as in overlook Bingley 's , in bruise of the
smile which spread her confront whenever she talk to one of its
objective ; for green-eyed monster had not yet made her desperate , and her attention
to Mr . Darcy were by no mean value over . omit Darcy , on her Brother 's
enamor , exerted herself much more to lecture , and Elizabeth II proverb that he
was anxious for his baby and herself to get acquainted , and forwarded
as much as possible , every attack at conversation on either side . young lady
Bingley attend all this likewise ; and , in the imprudence of anger , took the
first chance of saying , with sneering civility :

" beg , lack Eliza , are not the -- -- shire horse militia removed from Meryton ?
They must be a great loss to your crime syndicate . "

In Darcy 's presence she dared not cite Wickham 's describe ; but Elizabeth II
instantly comprehended that he was uppermost in her thought ; and the
various recollection connected with him gave her a instant 's distress ;
but exerting herself vigorously to drive back the ill-natured assault , she
presently answered the wonder in a tolerably detached shade . While
she speak , an involuntary glance showed her Darcy , with a heightened
complexion , earnestly looking at her , and his Sister overtake with
confusion , and unable to rise up her eye . Had girl Bingley known what
anguish she was then giving her beloved friend , she undoubtedly would
have refrained from the pinch ; but she had merely intended to upset
Elizabeth II by bringing forward the melodic theme of a man to whom she believed
her partial , to make her shop a sensitiveness which might bruise her in
Darcy 's view , and , perhaps , to prompt the latter of all the follies
and absurdity by which some role of her menage were connected
with that army corps . Not a syllable had ever reached her of misfire Darcy 's
meditated elopement . To no animate being had it been revealed , where privateness
was possible , except to Elizabeth ; and from all Bingley 's connection
her brother was particularly anxious to hide it , from the very
wish well which Elizabeth II had long ago attributed to him , of their becoming
time to come her own . He had certainly formed such a plan , and without
mean that it should affect his enterprise to separate him from Miss
bennet , it is probable that it might add something to his lively business organization
for the welfare of his Friend .

Elizabeth II 's collected behaviour , however , soon quieted his emotion ; and
as miss Bingley , harried and disappointed , dared not feeler near to
Wickham , Georgiana also recovered in metre , though not enough to be able
to talk any more . Her pal , whose eye she feared to meet , scarcely
recollected her worry in the occasion , and the very context which
had been designed to turn his thought process from Elizabeth I seemed to have
fixed them on her more and more cheerfully .

Their bring down did not continue long after the question and answer above
mentioned ; and while Mister . Darcy was attending them to their carriage miss
Bingley was venting her notion in criticism on Elizabeth 's person ,
behaviour , and crop . But Georgiana would not link up her . Her pal 's
testimonial was enough to ensure her favour ; his judgment could not
err . And he had speak in such terms of Elizabeth as to leave Georgiana
without the magnate of finding her otherwise than lovely and amiable . When
Darcy returned to the saloon , miss Bingley could not help repeating to
him some part of what she had been saying to his sis .

" How very ill Miss Eliza Geum virginianum flavour this daybreak , Mr . Darcy , " she
cried ; " I never in my life sentence hear anyone so much altered as she is since
the overwinter . She is grownup so brown and uncouth ! Louisa and I were agreeing
that we should not have known her again . "

However little Mr. . Darcy might have liked such an address , he contented
himself with coolly replying that he perceived no other modification than
her being rather tanned , no miraculous consequence of travelling in the
summer .

" For my own part , " she rejoined , " I must confess that I never could
see any knockout in her . Her face is too tenuous ; her complexion has no
lustre ; and her boast are not at all better-looking . Her nose
wants character -- there is zippo mark in its line . Her tooth are
tolerable , but not out of the common way ; and as for her eye ,
which have sometimes been called so fine , I could never see anything
extraordinary in them . They have a sharp , shrewish await , which I do
not like at all ; and in her melodic phrase altogether there is a self-sufficiency
without fashion , which is intolerable . "

Persuaded as miss Bingley was that Darcy admired Elizabeth I , this was not
the best method acting of recommending herself ; but angry people are not always
Stephen Samuel Wise ; and in seeing him at last look somewhat nettled , she had all the
success she expected . He was resolutely tacit , however , and , from a
purpose of making him speak , she continued :

" I remember , when we first know her in Hertfordshire , how amazed we all
were to find that she was a reputed lulu ; and I particularly remember
your saying one night , after they had been dining at Netherfield , 'She
a stunner ! -- I should as soon predict her father a learning ability . ' But afterwards she
seemed to improve on you , and I believe you conceive her rather pretty at
one sentence . "

" Yes , " replied Darcy , who could curb himself no longer , " but that
was only when I first byword her , for it is many month since I have
considered her as one of the handsome cleaning lady of my familiarity . "

He then went away , and neglect Bingley was leave to all the satisfaction of
having forced him to say what gave no one any pain but herself .

Mr. . Gardiner and Elizabeth I talked of all that had occurred during their
visit , as they returned , except what had particularly interested them
both . The look and deportment of everybody they had seen were discussed ,
except of the person who had mostly engaged their attention . They talked
of his sister , his acquaintance , his business firm , his yield -- of everything but
himself ; yet Elizabeth was yearning to know what Mrs . Gardiner think of
him , and Mrs. . Samuel Rawson Gardiner would have been highly gratified by her niece 's
beginning the subject .



chapter 46


Elizabeth II had been a good mint disappointed in not finding a letter from
Jane on their first arrival at Lambton ; and this letdown had been
renewed on each of the morning that had now been exhausted there ; but
on the third her repining was over , and her sister absolve , by the
receipt of two letter from her at once , on one of which was differentiate that
it had been missent elsewhere . Elizabeth I was not surprised at it , as
Jane had written the instruction remarkably sick .

They had just been preparing to walk as the letter came in ; and
her uncle and aunty , leaving her to savour them in quiet , correct off by
themselves . The one missent must first be attended to ; it had been
written five 24-hour interval ago . The beginning contained an account of all their
little party and engagement , with such tidings as the country afforded ;
but the latter one-half , which was dated a day later , and written in evident
agitation , gave more important intelligence . It was to this effectuate :

" Since writing the above , honey Lizzy , something has occurred of a
most unexpected and serious nature ; but I am afraid of alarming you -- be
assured that we are all well . What I have to say refer to poor Lydia .
An express came at xii last night , just as we were all gone to have sex ,
from colonel Forster , to inform us that she was gone off to Scotland
with one of his officer ; to own the accuracy , with Wickham ! imagine our
surprise . To kitty , however , it does not appear so wholly unexpected . I am
very , very deplorable . So imprudent a match on both English ! But I am willing
to hope the best , and that his fictional character has been be amiss .
thoughtless and indiscreet I can easily believe him , but this step
( and let us triumph over it ) mark goose egg bad at spirit . His quality is
disinterested at least , for he must know my founder can give her zip .
Our poor overprotect is sadly grieved . My beget yield it better . How
grateful am I that we never let them know what has been said against
him ; we must leave it ourselves . They were off Saturday dark about
XII , as is conjectured , but were not missed till yesterday morning at
eight . The express was get off off directly . My near Lizzy , they must have
passed within tenner nautical mile of us . colonel Forster gives us rationality to expect
him here soon . Lydia give a few strain for his married woman , informing her of
their aim . I must conclude , for I can not be long from my poor
get . I am afraid you will not be able to make it out , but I hardly
know what I have written . "

Without allowing herself prison term for thoughtfulness , and scarcely knowing
what she feel , Elizabeth on finishing this letter instantly seized the
other , and opening move it with the utmost restlessness , take as follows : it
had been written a day later than the end of the first .

" By this time , my earnest baby , you have received my hurried letter ; I
wish this may be more intelligible , but though not confined for time , my
head is so bewildered that I can not answer for being lucid . Dearest
Lizzy , I hardly know what I would write , but I have bad news for you ,
and it can not be delayed . imprudent as the marriage between Mister . Wickham
and our poor Lydia would be , we are now anxious to be assured it has
taken position , for there is but too much reason to fear they are not gone
to Scotland . colonel Forster came yesterday , having left Brighton the
Clarence Shepard Day Jr. before , not many hour after the extract . Though Lydia 's short
letter to Mr. . F . gave them to sympathize that they were going to Gretna
green , something was dropped by Denny expressing his notion that W .
never intended to go there , or to wed Lydia at all , which was
repeated to colonel F. , who , instantly taking the alarm , limit off from bacillus .
intending to describe their path . He did hint them easily to Clapham ,
but no further ; for on entering that direct , they removed into a hackney
charabanc , and dismissed the chaise longue that take them from Epsom . All that
is known after this is , that they were seen to uphold the London route .
I know not what to recall . After making every possible query on that
side John Griffith Chaney , colonel F . came on into Hertfordshire , anxiously renewing
them at all the turnpike , and at the lodge in Barnet and Hatfield , but
without any success -- no such people had been seen to go by through . With
the tolerant concern he came on to Longbourn , and break away his dread
to us in a manner most creditable to his heart . I am sincerely grieved
for him and Mrs . F. , but no one can fox any blessed on them . Our
straiten , my darling Lizzy , is very great . My engender and mother believe the
worst , but I can not think so poorly of him . Many luck might make
it more eligible for them to be married privately in townsfolk than to follow
their first plan ; and even if he could build such a innovation against a
young cleaning lady of Lydia 's connexion , which is not likely , can I presuppose
her so lost to everything ? Impossible ! I aggrieve to find , however , that
colonel atomic number 9 . is not disposed to depend upon their married couple ; he excite his
principal when I expressed my skip , and said he feared tungsten . was not a man to
be trusted . My poor bring forth is really ominous , and keep on her room . Could she
exert herself , it would be better ; but this is not to be expected . And
as to my founding father , I never in my life assure him so affected . pitiable kitten has
anger for having concealed their attachment ; but as it was a matter of
confidence , one can not wonderment . I am truly glad , pricy Lizzy , that you
have been spared something of these distressing scene ; but now , as the
first electric shock is over , shall I own that I long for your return ? I am not
so selfish , however , as to press for it , if inconvenient . au revoir ! I
take up my pen again to do what I have just evidence you I would not ; but
destiny are such that I can not assistance earnestly begging you all to
come here as soon as possible . I know my love uncle and auntie so well ,
that I am not afraid of requesting it , though I have still something
more to postulate of the former . My Church Father is going to London with colonel
Forster instantly , to essay to attain her . What he intend to do I am certainly
I know not ; but his excessive straiten will not allow him to follow up on any
standard in the best and dependable path , and colonel Forster is obliged to
be at Brighton again to-morrow eventide . In such an exigence , my
uncle 's advice and help would be everything in the world ; he will
immediately dig what I must feel , and I rely upon his good . "

" Oh ! where , where is my uncle ? " cried Elizabeth , darting from her sit
as she finished the varsity letter , in keenness to follow him , without losing
a moment of the prison term so precious ; but as she reached the door it was
opened by a handmaiden , and Mister . Darcy appeared . Her sick face and impetuous
fashion made him first , and before he could find himself to speak ,
she , in whose mind every idea was superseded by Lydia 's berth ,
hastily exclaimed , " I beg your pardon , but I must leave you . I must find
Mr. . Samuel Rawson Gardiner this consequence , on business that can not be delayed ; I have not
an instant to suffer . "

" Good divinity ! what is the weigh ? " cried he , with more feeling than
civility ; then recollecting himself , " I will not hold up you a moment ;
but let me , or let the retainer go after Mister . and Mr. . Gardiner . You are
not well enough ; you can not go yourself . "

Elizabeth I hesitated , but her knee trembled under her and she matte how
little would be gained by her attempting to pursue them . Calling back
the servant , therefore , she commissioned him , though in so dyspnoeal
an accent as made her almost unintelligible , to fetch his professional and
kept woman family instantly .

On his quitting the room she sit down , unable to underpin herself , and
looking so miserably ailment , that it was impossible for Darcy to leave her ,
or to chorus from saying , in a tone of mildness and commiseration ,
" Let me call your amah . be there nothing you could take to give you
present easing ? A glass of vino ; shall I get you one ? You are very ill . "

" No , I give thanks you , " she replied , endeavouring to recover herself . " There
is nix the topic with me . I am quite well ; I am only distressed by
some frightening news which I have just received from Longbourn . "

She burst into binge as she alluded to it , and for a few minute could
not mouth another word . Darcy , in wretched suspense , could only say
something indistinctly of his pertain , and watch her in compassionate
silence . At duration she spoke again . " I have just had a letter from Jane ,
with such awful news . It can not be concealed from anyone . My younger
sister has leave all her friend -- has eloped ; has switch herself into
the office of -- of Mr . Wickham . They are gone off together from Brighton .
You know him too well to dubiety the rest . She has no money , no
connection , goose egg that can tempt him to -- she is lost for ever . "

Darcy was fixed in amazement . " When I consider , " she added in a yet
more agitated representative , " that I might have prevented it ! I , who fuck what
he was . Had I but explained some theatrical role of it only -- some role of what I
hear , to my own family ! Had his reference been known , this could not
have happened . But it is all -- all too late now . "

" I am grieved indeed , " cried Darcy ; " grieved -- shocked . But is it
certain -- absolutely certain ? "

" Oh , yes ! They go forth Brighton together on Sunday night , and were traced
almost to Jack London , but not beyond ; they are certainly not gone to
Scotland . "

" And what has been done , what has been attempted , to retrieve her ? "

" My Padre is gone to Jack London , and Jane has written to tap my uncle 's
quick assist ; and we shall be off , I hope , in half-an-hour . But
goose egg can be done -- I know very well that cipher can be done . How is
such a man to be worked on ? How are they even to be discovered ? I have
not the smallest Hope . It is every way horrible ! "

Darcy shake his lead in still acquiescence .

" When my heart were opened to his real role -- Oh ! had I known what
I ought , what I dared to do ! But I fuck not -- I was afraid of doing too
much . Wretched , wretched mistake ! "

Darcy made no answer . He seemed scarcely to hear her , and was walking
up and down the way in devout speculation , his eyebrow contracted , his airwave
depressed . Elizabeth I soon observed , and instantly understand it . Her
power was sink ; everything must cesspit under such a validation of family
failing , such an confidence of the deep disgrace . She could neither
enquire nor condemn , but the opinion of his self-conquest bring nada
comforting to her bosom , afforded no extenuation of her straiten . It
was , on the contrary , exactly calculated to make her empathize her own
wish ; and never had she so honestly feel that she could have loved
him , as now , when all sexual love must be futile .

But ego , though it would obtrude , could not occupy her . Lydia -- the
humiliation , the misery she was bringing on them all , soon swallowed
up every private care ; and covering her face with her hanky ,
Elizabeth I was soon lost to everything else ; and , after a interruption of
several minute , was only recalled to a sense of her situation by
the vocalisation of her companion , who , in a way which , though it speak
pity , speak likewise constraint , said , " I am afraid you have been
long desiring my absence , nor have I anything to plead in rationalize of my
stay , but real , though unavailing have-to doe with . Would to Eden that anything
could be either said or done on my piece that might bid solace to
such straiten ! But I will not frustrate you with swollen-headed wish , which may
seem purposely to require for your thank . This unfortunate person involvement will , I
fear , keep my Sister 's having the pleasure of seeing you at Pemberley
to-day . "

" Oh , yes . Be so variety as to justify for us to miss Darcy . order that
urgent business hollo us household immediately . conceal the unhappy accuracy as
long as it is possible , I know it can not be long . "

He readily assured her of his secrecy ; again expressed his grief for
her distress , wished it a glad conclusion than there was at present
reason to promise , and leaving his regard for her carnal knowledge , with only
one serious , parting feeling , went away .

As he quitted the board , Elizabeth I felt how improbable it was that they
should ever see each other again on such terminus of cordiality as
had check off their several meeting in Derbyshire ; and as she throw a
retrospective glint over the whole of their acquaintanceship , so full
of contradiction and smorgasbord , sighed at the perversity of those
tactual sensation which would now have promoted its duration , and would
formerly have rejoiced in its terminus .

If gratitude and esteem are good innovation of tenderness , Elizabeth II 's
modify of view will be neither improbable nor faulty . But if
otherwise -- if view springing from such origin is unreasonable or
unnatural , in comparison of what is so often name as arising on
a first audience with its physical object , and even before two parole have been
exchanged , null can be said in her defense reaction , except that she had given
somewhat of a trial run to the latter method in her partiality for Wickham ,
and that its ill success might , perhaps , pass her to search the other
less interesting mode of attachment . Be that as it may , she get wind him
go with regret ; and in this early example of what Lydia 's infamy must
get , rule additional anguish as she reflected on that wretched
business . Never , since read Jane 's second letter , had she entertained
a Bob Hope of Wickham 's mean to get married her . No one but Jane , she thought ,
could mat herself with such an expectation . storm was the least
of her tactile sensation on this evolution . While the message of the first
letter of the alphabet remained in her nous , she was all surprise -- all astonishment that
Wickham should splice a girl whom it was impossible he could hook up with
for money ; and how Lydia could ever have attached him had appeared
incomprehensible . But now it was all too natural . For such an bond
as this she might have sufficient enamour ; and though she did not opine
Lydia to be deliberately engaging in an elopement without the design
of marriage , she had no difficultness in believing that neither her virtue
nor her understanding would preserve her from falling an easy feed .

She had never perceived , while the regiment was in Hertfordshire , that
Lydia had any partisanship for him ; but she was convinced that Lydia
wanted only boost to bond herself to anybody . Sometimes one
military officer , sometimes another , had been her favorite , as their attention
raised them in her opinion . Her heart had continually been
fluctuating but never without an object . The mischief-making of neglect and
misidentify self-indulgence towards such a girl -- oh ! how acutely did she now
feel it !

She was barbaric to be at family -- to hear , to view , to be upon the smear to
part with Jane in the care that must now gloaming wholly upon her , in a
folk so deranged , a Church Father absent , a generate incapable of travail , and
requiring constant attendance ; and though almost persuaded that null
could be done for Lydia , her uncle 's interference seemed of the farthest
importance , and cashbox he entered the room her impatience was severe . Mister .
and Mr. . Gardiner had hurried back in dismay , supposing by the retainer 's
report that their niece was taken suddenly ill ; but satisfying them
instantly on that header , she eagerly communicated the have of their
summon , understand the two varsity letter aloud , and dwelling on the supplement
of the last with trembling vim , though Lydia had never been a
deary with them , Mister . and Mr . Samuel Rawson Gardiner could not but be deep
afflicted . Not Lydia only , but all were concerned in it ; and after the
first ecphonesis of surprise and repulsion , Mr. . Samuel Rawson Gardiner promised every
aid in his exponent . Elizabeth , though expecting no less , thank
him with snap of gratitude ; and all three being actuated by one life ,
everything relating to their journey was speedily settled . They were to
be off as soon as possible . " But what is to be done about Pemberley ? "
cried Mr . Samuel Rawson Gardiner . " Saint John the Apostle recount us Mister . Darcy was here when you send for
us ; was it so ? "

" Yes ; and I tell him we should not be able to keep our engagement .
That is all settled . "

" What is all settled ? " repeated the other , as she go into her room to
educate . " And are they upon such term as for her to disclose the real
true statement ? Oh , that I know how it was ! "

But indirect request were self-conceited , or at least could only assist to amuse her in the
haste and mix-up of the following hour . Had Elizabeth been at leisure
to be tick over , she would have remained certain that all employment was
impossible to one so wretched as herself ; but she had her portion of
business organization as well as her aunt , and amongst the breathe there were notation to
be written to all their protagonist at Lambton , with false let off for their
sudden departure . An hour , however , find out the whole completed ; and Mr .
Samuel Rawson Gardiner meanwhile having settled his account at the hostelry , zip
remained to be done but to Adam ; and Elizabeth II , after all the miserableness of
the cockcrow , find herself , in a short space of time than she could
have supposed , seated in the rig , and on the road to Longbourn .



chapter 47


" I have been thinking it over again , Elizabeth , " said her uncle , as they
take from the town ; " and really , upon serious retainer , I am much
more inclined than I was to gauge as your firstborn sis does on the
weigh . It appears to me so very unlikely that any young humankind should
form such a design against a female child who is by no mean unprotected or
outcast , and who was actually staying in his colonel 's family , that I
am strongly inclined to hope the best . Could he expect that her friend
would not whole step forward ? Could he expect to be noticed again by the
regiment , after such an affront to colonel Forster ? His temptation is
not tolerable to the chance ! "

" Do you really retrieve so ? " cried Elizabeth , brighten up for a here and now .

" Upon my Logos , " said Mrs. . Samuel Rawson Gardiner , " I begin to be of your uncle 's
opinion . It is really too great a assault of decency , honour , and
interest , for him to be guilty of . I can not think so very ill of
Wickham . Can you yourself , Lizzy , so wholly give him up , as to believe
him capable of it ? "

" Not , perhaps , of neglecting his own interest ; but of every other
neglect I can believe him capable . If , indeed , it should be so ! But I
defy not desire it . Why should they not go on to Scotland if that had been
the example ? "

" In the first put , " replied Mr . Gardiner , " there is no right-down proof
that they are not gone to Scotland . "

" Oh ! but their removing from the chaise into a hackney motorbus is such
a presumption ! And , besides , no tracing of them were to be establish on the
Barnet road . "

" Well , then -- supposing them to be in capital of the United Kingdom . They may be there , though
for the design of concealment , for no more exceptional role . It is
not likely that money should be very abundant on either side ; and it
might smash them that they could be more economically , though less
expeditiously , married in London than in Scotland . "

" But why all this concealment ? Why any venerate of detection ? Why must their
marriage be private ? Oh , no , no -- this is not likely . His most particular
ally , you see by Jane 's account , was persuaded of his never intending
to get married her . Wickham will never espouse a woman without some money . He
can not afford it . And what claim has Lydia -- what drawing card has she
beyond juvenility , health , and good humor that could make him , for her sake ,
forego every risk of do good himself by marrying well ? As to what
constraint the apprehension of attaint in the corporation might project on a
dishonourable elopement with her , I am not able to adjudicate ; for I know
zilch of the core that such a step might produce . But as to your
other objection , I am afraid it will hardly guard good . Lydia has
no brother to footfall forward ; and he might reckon , from my Father 's
deportment , from his laziness and the little attention he has ever
seemed to give to what was going forward in his family , that he would
do as little , and think as little about it , as any father could do , in
such a count . "

" But can you think that Lydia is so lost to everything but do it of him
as to consent to live with him on any terminal figure other than union ? "

" It does seem , and it is most shocking indeed , " replied Elizabeth II , with
bust in her heart , " that a baby 's sense of decency and virtue in such
a indicate should admit of doubt . But , really , I know not what to articulate .
Perhaps I am not doing her justness . But she is very young ; she has never
been teach to retrieve on serious topic ; and for the last half-year ,
nay , for a year -- she has been given up to goose egg but amusement
and amour propre . She has been allowed to toss of her prison term in the most idle
and frivolous mode , and to take in any thought that came in her way .
Since the -- -- shire were first quartered in Meryton , goose egg but passion ,
flirting , and officer have been in her straits . She has been doing
everything in her tycoon by thinking and talking on the field of study , to give
greater -- what shall I call it ? susceptibility to her find ; which are
naturally lively enough . And we all know that Wickham has every becharm of
person and address that can trance a adult female . "

" But you see that Jane , " said her aunty , " does not guess so very sick of
Wickham as to believe him capable of the try . "

" Of whom does Jane ever intend poorly ? And who is there , whatever might be
their former carry , that she would think capable of such an try ,
till it were proved against them ? But Jane experience , as well as I do , what
Wickham really is . We both know that he has been degenerate in every
signified of the Scripture ; that he has neither integrity nor honour ; that he is
as false and ambidextrous as he is ingratiating . "

" And do you really know all this ? " cried Mister . Samuel Rawson Gardiner , whose oddity
as to the mode of her news was all alive .

" I do indeed , " replied Elizabeth I , coloring . " I secernate you , the other Clarence Day ,
of his infamous behavior to Mister . Darcy ; and you yourself , when last at
Longbourn , get wind in what mode he rung of the man who had behaved
with such forbearance and liberalness towards him . And there are other
fortune which I am not at liberty -- which it is not worth while to
associate ; but his lie about the whole Pemberley fellowship are eternal . From
what he said of young lady Darcy I was thoroughly prepared to see a lofty ,
reserved , disagreeable female child . Yet he get it on to the contrary himself . He
must know that she was as amiable and unpretending as we have find
her . "

" But does Lydia know aught of this ? can she be unlearned of what you
and Jane seem so well to understand ? "

" Oh , yes ! -- that , that is the worst of all . till I was in Rockwell Kent , and byword
so much both of Mister . Darcy and his carnal knowledge colonel Fitzwilliam , I was
unknowledgeable of the truth myself . And when I returned home , the -- -- shire
was to leave Meryton in a workweek or fortnight 's time . As that was the
case , neither Jane , to whom I related the whole , nor I , thinking it
necessary to make our noesis public ; for of what utilization could
it apparently be to any one , that the good belief which all the
neighborhood had of him should then be overthrown ? And even when it was
settled that Lydia should go with Mrs . Forster , the necessity of open
her eyeball to his character never occurred to me . That she could be
in any risk from the magic never entered my head . That such a
consequence as this could ensue , you may easily trust , was far
enough from my intellection . "

" When they all removed to Brighton , therefore , you had no rationality , I
suppose , to believe them doting of each other ? "

" Not the thin . I can remember no symptom of warmheartedness on either
face ; and had anything of the sort been perceptible , you must be aware
that ours is not a family on which it could be throw away . When first
he entered the corps , she was ready enough to admire him ; but so we all
were . Every girl in or near Meryton was out of her sense about him for
the first two month ; but he never distinguished her by any particular
attention ; and , consequently , after a chair point of spendthrift and
wild admiration , her visualize for him gave way , and others of the regiment ,
who treated her with more preeminence , again became her favourite . "

* * * * *

It may be easily believed , that however little of gewgaw could be added
to their fear , go for , and conjecture , on this interesting topic , by
its repeated give-and-take , no other could stay them from it long , during
the whole of the journeying . From Elizabeth I 's thought it was never remove .
Fixed there by the sharp of all anguish , compunction , she could find
no interval of repose or forgetfulness .

They travelled as expeditiously as possible , and , sleeping one night
on the route , reached Longbourn by dinner time the next day . It was a
soothe to Elizabeth to consider that Jane could not have been wearied
by long expectation .

The little Samuel Rawson Gardiner , attracted by the sight of a chaise longue , were standing
on the step of the house as they entered the paddock ; and , when the
baby carriage beat back up to the threshold , the joyful surprise that lighted up their
faces , and display itself over their whole body , in a motley of
play and lark about , was the first pleasing devout of their welcome .

Elizabeth II jump out ; and , after giving each of them a hasty buss ,
hurried into the anteroom , where Jane , who came running down from her
mother 's apartment , immediately meet her .

Elizabeth II , as she affectionately embraced her , whilst teardrop filled the
eye of both , lost not a present moment in asking whether anything had been
hear of the fleer .

" Not yet , " replied Jane . " But now that my high-priced uncle is come in , I hope
everything will be well . "

" embody my founder in townsfolk ? "

" Yes , he went on Tuesday , as I wrote you word . "

" And have you heard from him often ? "

" We have get a line only twice . He wrote me a few line on Wednesday to say
that he had arrived in safety , and to give me his direction , which I
particularly begged him to do . He merely added that he should not publish
again cashbox he had something of grandness to reference . "

" And my engender -- how is she ? How are you all ? "

" My overprotect is tolerably well , I trust ; though her liveliness are greatly
shaken . She is up stair and will have great satisfaction in seeing you
all . She does not yet leave her dressing-room . Madonna and kitty-cat , give thanks
promised land , are quite well . "

" But you -- how are you ? " cried Elizabeth II . " You search blanch . How much you
must have gone through ! "

Her babe , however , assured her of her being perfectly well ; and their
conversation , which had been fleet while Mr . and Mrs . Samuel Rawson Gardiner were
engaged with their child , was now set an terminate to by the approach
of the whole party . Jane go to her uncle and aunt , and welcomed and
thank them both , with alternate smiling and rent .

When they were all in the drawing-room , the doubtfulness which Elizabeth
had already asked were of row repeated by the others , and they soon
find that Jane had no news to return . The sanguine hope of
good , however , which the benevolence of her pith suggested had not yet
deserted her ; she still expected that it would all stop well , and that
every dayspring would convey some alphabetic character , either from Lydia or her sire ,
to explain their go on , and , perhaps , announce their matrimony .

Mister . white avens , to whose flat they all repaired , after a few minute of arc '
conversation together , received them exactly as might be expected ; with
weeping and Book of Lamentations of rue , vituperation against the villainous
lead of Wickham , and ailment of her own suffer and abuse ;
blaming everybody but the person to whose ill-judging tomfoolery the
mistake of her daughter must principally be owing .

" If I had been able , " said she , " to pack my direct in going to Brighton ,
with all my family , this would not have happened ; but poor dear Lydia
had cipher to take like of her . Why did the Forsters ever let her go out
of their vision ? I am certain there was some great neglect or other on their
side of meat , for she is not the variety of girl to do such a thing if she had been
well looked after . I always conceive they were very bad to have the
rouse of her ; but I was overruled , as I always am . pitiable love child !
And now here 's Mr. . bennet gone away , and I know he will fight Wickham ,
wheresoever he meet him and then he will be killed , and what is to go
of us all ? The Tom Collins will grow us out before he is stale in his
grievous , and if you are not variety to us , brother , I do not know what we
shall do . "

They all exclaimed against such terrific idea ; and Mister . Samuel Rawson Gardiner , after
general pledge of his affectionateness for her and all her syndicate , severalize her
that he intend to be in British capital the very next Clarence Day , and would assist Mr .
white avens in every strive for recovering Lydia .

" Do not give fashion to useless horrify , " added he ; " though it is veracious to be
prepared for the worst , there is no social occasion to front on it as certain .
It is not quite a week since they leave behind Brighton . In a few 24-hour interval more we
may gain some news of them ; and trough we know that they are not married ,
and have no purpose of get married , do not let us give the issue over as
lost . As soon as I get to townsfolk I shall go to my pal , and make
him come family with me to Gracechurch street ; and then we may consult
together as to what is to be done . "

" Oh ! my beloved sidekick , " replied Mr. . bennet , " that is exactly what I
could most indirect request for . And now do , when you get to town , find them out ,
wherever they may be ; and if they are not married already , make them
marry . And as for wedding apparel , do not let them wait for that , but
say Lydia she shall have as much money as she choose to buy them ,
after they are married . And , above all , keep Mr . Geum virginianum from fight down .
Tell him what a awful state I am in , that I am frighted out of my
witticism -- and have such quiver , such flutter , all over me -- such
spasm in my side and pain in the neck in my point , and such get at heart , that
I can get no residuum by night nor by sidereal day . And tell my pricy Lydia not to
give any direction about her apparel boulder clay she has seen me , for she does
not know which are the best warehouse . Oh , chum , how kind you are ! I
know you will design it all . "

But Mister . Samuel Rawson Gardiner , though he assured her again of his earnest endeavor
in the get , could not quash recommending moderateness to her , as well
in her promise as her fear ; and after talking with her in this personal manner money box
dinner was on the put over , they all provide her to vent-hole all her feel on
the housekeeper , who attended in the absence seizure of her girl .

Though her brother and sister were persuaded that there was no real
function for such a privateness from the syndicate , they did not attack to
fight it , for they know that she had not discreetness enough to keep back her
tongue before the servant , while they waited at table , and judge it
better that one only of the house , and the one whom they could
most commit should comprehend all her concern and solicitousness on the
open .

In the dining room they were soon joined by Blessed Virgin and puss , who had been
too busily engaged in their separate apartment to make their appearance
before . One came from her book , and the other from her toilet . The
faces of both , however , were tolerably composure ; and no change was visible
in either , except that the departure of her favorite sister , or the anger
which she had herself incurred in this line , had given more of
fretfulness than usual to the idiom of kitty . As for Mary , she was
kept woman enough of herself to whisper to Elizabeth I , with a mug
of inscribe reflection , soon after they were seated at table :

" This is a most unfortunate person affaire , and will probably be much talked of .
But we must stem the tide of malice , and stream into the wounded tit of
each other the balm of sisterly comfort . "

Then , perceiving in Elizabeth no inclination of respond , she added ,
" Unhappy as the event must be for Lydia , we may line from it this useful
deterrent example : that red of virtue in a female is irretrievable ; that one
false step affect her in endless ruin ; that her reputation is no less
brickle than it is beautiful ; and that she can not be too much guarded in
her demeanor towards the undeserving of the other sex . "

Elizabeth lifted up her eye in amazement , but was too much oppressed
to make any response . The Virgin , however , continued to console herself with such
tolerant of moral extraction from the evil before them .

In the good afternoon , the two elder escape white avens were able to be for
half-an-hour by themselves ; and Elizabeth instantly availed herself of
the chance of making any query , which Jane was equally tidal bore to
satisfy . After joining in general lament over the dread subsequence
of this consequence , which Elizabeth II considered as all but certain , and miss
Geum canadense could not maintain to be wholly impossible , the former continued
the study , by saying , " But tell apart me all and everything about it which
I have not already find out . Give me further specific . What did colonel
Forster say ? Had they no collar of anything before the elopement
took invest ? They must have seen them together for ever . "

" colonel Forster did own that he had often suspected some partiality ,
especially on Lydia 's face , but zip to give him any alarm system . I am so
grieved for him ! His behaviour was attentive and genial to the utmost . He
was coming to us , in rate to control us of his fear , before he had
any estimation of their not being gone to Scotland : when that savvy
first got abroad , it hastened his journey . "

" And was Denny convinced that Wickham would not wed ? do he know of
their intending to go off ? Had colonel Forster seen Denny himself ? "

" Yes ; but , when questioned by him , Denny denied knowing anything of
their plan , and would not give his real opinion about it . He did not
repeat his thought of their not wed -- and from that , I am
inclined to hope , he might have been misconstrue before . "

" And trough colonel Forster came himself , not one of you entertained a
doubt , I speculate , of their being really married ? "

" How was it possible that such an idea should put down our encephalon ? I mat
a little uneasy -- a little fearful of my babe 's happiness with him
in man and wife , because I recognize that his impart had not been always quite
right . My Church Father and overprotect have sex nothing of that ; they only feel how
imprudent a twin it must be . pot then owned , with a very natural
triumph on knowing more than the rest of us , that in Lydia 's last letter
she had prepared her for such a mistreat . She had known , it seems , of their
being in love with each other , many calendar week . "

" But not before they went to Brighton ? "

" No , I believe not . "

" And did colonel Forster appear to imagine well of Wickham himself ? fare
he know his real persona ? "

" I must profess that he did not verbalise so well of Wickham as he formerly
did . He believed him to be imprudent and exuberant . And since this sad
social function has taken place , it is said that he left Meryton greatly in debt ;
but I desire this may be false . "

" Oh , Jane , had we been less closed book , had we tell what we sleep with of him ,
this could not have happened ! "

" Perhaps it would have been better , " replied her babe . " But to expose
the former fracture of any individual without knowing what their demonstrate
feel were , seemed unjustifiable . We acted with the best purpose . "

" Could colonel Forster repeat the particular of Lydia 's note to his
wife ? "

" He bestow it with him for us to examine . "

Jane then took it from her pocket-book , and gave it to Elizabeth . These
were the subject matter :

" MY dear HARRIET ,

" You will express mirth when you know where I am gone , and I can not help oneself
laughing myself at your storm to-morrow first light , as soon as I am
missed . I am going to Gretna greenish , and if you can not speculation with who ,
I shall think you a simpleton , for there is but one man in the world I
love life , and he is an saint . I should never be happy without him , so think
it no injury to be off . You necessitate not air them word at Longbourn of my
going , if you do not like it , for it will make the surprise the greater ,
when I write to them and foretoken my advert 'Lydia Wickham . ' What a good joke
it will be ! I can hardly write for laughing . implore make my self-justification to
Pratt for not keeping my meshing , and dancing with him to-night .
Tell him I hope he will pardon me when he know all ; and tell apart him I will
dance with him at the next clod we meet , with great pleasance . I shall
direct for my apparel when I get to Longbourn ; but I care you would say
Sally to repair a great prick in my worked muslin robe before they are
pack up . good-by . Give my be intimate to colonel Forster . I desire you will
drinkable to our good travel .

" Your lovesome supporter ,

" LYDIA white avens . "

" Oh ! thoughtless , uncaring Lydia ! " cried Elizabeth I when she had
finished it . " What a letter is this , to be written at such a moment !
But at least it show that she was serious on the subject area of their
journeying . Whatever he might later on persuade her to , it was not on her
position a scheme of infamy . My poor Padre ! how he must have feel it ! "

" I never run into anyone so shocked . He could not verbalize a Word for full ten
moment . My bring forth was taken poorly immediately , and the whole family in
such muddiness ! "

" Oh ! Jane , " cried Elizabeth , " was there a retainer belong to it who
did not know the whole tale before the end of the day ? "

" I do not recognize . I hope there was . But to be guarded at such a time is
very difficult . My mother was in hysteric , and though I endeavoured to
give her every help in my power , I am afraid I did not do so
much as I might have done ! But the horror of what might possibly happen
almost took from me my staff . "

" Your attendance upon her has been too much for you . You do not look
well . Oh that I had been with you ! you have had every care and anxiety
upon yourself alone . "

" Mary and pot have been very kind , and would have shared in every
jade , I am indisputable ; but I did not intend it decent for either of them .
pussy is rebuff and delicate ; and Madonna contemplate so much , that her hour
of repose should not be low in on . My aunt Phillips came to Longbourn
on Tues , after my Fatherhood went away ; and was so good as to stay cashbox
Th with me . She was of great apply and comfort to us all . And
peeress George Lucas has been very kind ; she walked here on Wed morning time to
condole with us , and offered her armed service , or any of her daughter ' , if
they should be of apply to us . "

" She had better have appease at home base , " cried Elizabeth II ; " perhaps she
meant well , but , under such a tough luck as this , one can not see
too little of one 's neighbor . assistance is impossible ; commiseration
insufferable . Let them triumph over us at a outstrip , and be satisfied . "

She then proceeded to ask into the appraise which her bring forth had
intended to pursue , while in township , for the recuperation of his girl .

" He imply I believe , " replied Jane , " to go to Epsom , the localize where
they last changed sawbuck , see the postilion and taste if anything could
be made out from them . His chief objective must be to bring out the
number of the hackney coach coach which took them from Clapham . It had come
with a fare from capital of the United Kingdom ; and as he think that the condition of a
gentleman and Lady 's removing from one pusher into another might
be remarked he mean to make research at Clapham . If he could anyway
find out at what house the coachman had before limit down his menu , he
determined to make enquiry there , and hoped it might not be impossible
to find out the stand and number of the tutor . I do not know of any
other intent that he had formed ; but he was in such a hastiness to be gone ,
and his look so greatly discomposed , that I had difficulty in finding
out even so much as this . "



chapter 48


The whole party were in hope of a letter from Mr . bennet the next
break of the day , but the post came in without bringing a single trace from him .
His family cognise him to be , on all common affair , a most negligent and
laggard correspondent ; but at such a time they had hoped for exertion .
They were forced to conclude that he had no pleasing intelligence service to
send ; but even of that they would have been happy to be certain . Mr .
Samuel Rawson Gardiner had waited only for the letters before he determined off .

When he was gone , they were certain at least of receiving constant
entropy of what was going on , and their uncle promised , at part ,
to prevail on Mister . bennet to repay to Longbourn , as soon as he could ,
to the great consolation of his sister , who considered it as the only
security for her conserve 's not being killed in a duel .

Mrs. . Samuel Rawson Gardiner and the small fry were to persist in Hertfordshire a few
day longer , as the former think her presence might be serviceable
to her niece . She shared in their attending on Mrs . white avens , and was a
great comfort to them in their 60 minutes of freedom . Their other aunty also
visited them frequently , and always , as she said , with the design of
cheering and heartening them up -- though , as she never came without
report some fresh representative of Wickham 's highlife or geometrical irregularity ,
she seldom went away without leaving them more dispirited than she receive
them .

All Meryton seemed striving to melanize the Isle of Man who , but three month
before , had been almost an backer of unhorse . He was declared to be in debt
to every storekeeper in the aim , and his machination , all honoured with
the claim of seduction , had been extended into every shopkeeper 's kinsfolk .
Everybody declared that he was the wickedest young man in the domain ;
and everybody began to find out that they had always distrusted the
appearance of his goodness . Elizabeth I , though she did not mention above
half of what was said , believed enough to make her former self-confidence of
her sis 's dilapidation more certain ; and even Jane , who believed still less
of it , became almost hopeless , more especially as the time was now come
when , if they had gone to Scotland , which she had never before entirely
despaired of , they must in all probability have gained some news of
them .

Mr. . Samuel Rawson Gardiner left Longbourn on Dominicus ; on Tuesday his wife received a
letter from him ; it narrate them that , on his arriver , he had immediately
chance out his brother , and persuaded him to come to Gracechurch street ;
that Mr. . bennet had been to Epsom and Clapham , before his arrival ,
but without gaining any acceptable information ; and that he was now
determined to enquire at all the primary hotel in townsfolk , as Mister . white avens
call back it possible they might have gone to one of them , on their first
coming to John Griffith Chaney , before they procured digs . Mr . Samuel Rawson Gardiner himself
did not expect any success from this valuate , but as his pal was
aegir in it , he mean to help him in pursuing it . He added that Mister .
Geum canadense seemed wholly disinclined at present to leave British capital and promised
to write again very soon . There was also a postscript to this consequence :

" I have written to colonel Forster to trust him to find out , if
possible , from some of the young mankind 's intimate in the regiment ,
whether Wickham has any copulation or connection who would be likely to
know in what set forth of town he has now concealed himself . If there were
anyone that one could apply to with a probability of gaining such a
cue as that , it might be of essential outcome . At present we have
nothing to conduct us . colonel Forster will , I dare say , do everything in
his top executive to fulfil us on this head . But , on second opinion , perhaps ,
Lizzy could order us what relation he has now living , better than any
other someone . "

Elizabeth II was at no going to realise from whence this compliance to her
bureau proceeded ; but it was not in her world power to give any information
of so acceptable a nature as the compliment deserved . She had never
hear of his having had any relative , except a Father and mother , both
of whom had been dead many eld . It was possible , however , that some of
his fellow traveler in the -- -- shire might be able to give more information ;
and though she was not very florid in expecting it , the application
was a something to calculate forward to .

Every daytime at Longbourn was now a 24-hour interval of anxiety ; but the most anxious
partially of each was when the Wiley Post was expected . The reaching of letters
was the grand object of every cockcrow 's impatience . Through missive ,
whatever of good or bad was to be assure would be communicated , and every
succeeding twenty-four hours was expected to fetch some news program of importance .

But before they heard again from Mister . Gardiner , a varsity letter arrived for
their father , from a different quarter , from Mister . Wilkie Collins ; which , as Jane
had received focussing to open all that came for him in his absence seizure ,
she accordingly show ; and Elizabeth , who fuck what wonder his
letter always were , looked over her , and show it likewise . It was as
follows :

" MY honey Sir ,

" I feel myself called upon , by our relationship , and my situation
in lifetime , to condole with you on the grievous affliction you are now
suffering under , of which we were yesterday informed by a letter from
Hertfordshire . Be assured , my beloved Sir , that Mr . William Wilkie Collins and myself
sincerely empathise with you and all your respectable family , in
your salute suffering , which must be of the bitterest tolerant , because
proceeding from a do which no time can remove . No parameter shall be
wanting on my part that can relieve so severe a misfortune -- or that
may soothe you , under a context that must be of all others the
most afflicting to a rear 's head . The demise of your girl would
have been a approving in compare of this . And it is the more to
be lamented , because there is cause to hypothecate as my dear charlotte
inform me , that this looseness of behavior in your girl has
proceeded from a wrong academic degree of leniency ; though , at the same time ,
for the solace of yourself and Mrs . bennet , I am inclined to think
that her own disposition must be naturally bad , or she could not be
guilty of such an enormity , at so early an age . Howsoever that may be ,
you are grievously to be pitied ; in which impression I am not only joined
by Mr . Collins , but likewise by peeress Catherine of Aragon and her girl , to
whom I have related the affair . They match with me in apprehending that
this false step in one girl will be injurious to the luck of
all the others ; for who , as noblewoman Catherine of Aragon herself condescendingly says ,
will connect themselves with such a family ? And this condition precede
me furthermore to ruminate , with augmented gratification , on a certain event
of last Nov ; for had it been otherwise , I must have been involved
in all your ruefulness and disgrace . Let me then give notice you , dearest sir , to
console yourself as much as possible , to throw off your unworthy tiddler
from your affection for ever , and leave her to reap the yield of her
own heinous criminal offence .

" I am , heartfelt Sir , etc. , etc . "

Mr. . Gardiner did not write again till he had received an answer from
colonel Forster ; and then he had naught of a pleasant nature to transmit .
It was not known that Wickham had a single relationship with whom he
keep up any link , and it was certain that he had no near one
endure . His former friend had been numerous ; but since he
had been in the militia , it did not appear that he was on term of
particular friendly relationship with any of them . There was no one , therefore ,
who could be pointed out as likely to give any word of him . And in the
wretched commonwealth of his own finance , there was a very powerful motive for
secrecy , in addition to his revere of uncovering by Lydia 's sexual congress , for
it had just transpired that he had left gaming debt behind him to a
very considerable come . colonel Forster believed that more than a
K pound would be necessary to clear his expense at Brighton .
He owed a good good deal in town , but his debt of honour were still more
formidable . Mr . Gardiner did not attack to hold in these particular proposition
from the Longbourn family . Jane hear them with horror . " A spirited ! "
she cried . " This is wholly unexpected . I had not an idea of it . "

Mr. . Samuel Rawson Gardiner added in his letter , that they might expect to see their
Father at home on the following daylight , which was Sabbatum . Rendered
spiritless by the ill-success of all their endeavour , he had yielded
to his brother-in-law 's entreaty that he would return to his family , and
leave it to him to do whatever occasion might suggest to be advisable
for continuing their pursuit . When Mr . bennet was recount of this , she did
not show so much satisfaction as her tike expected , considering
what her anxiousness for his life history had been before .

" What , is he coming home , and without poor Lydia ? " she cried . " Sure he
will not leave Greater London before he has happen them . Who is to engagement Wickham ,
and make him hook up with her , if he comes away ? "

As Mrs . Gardiner began to like to be at nursing home , it was settled that she
and the child should go to Greater London , at the same clock time that Mister . bennet
came from it . The double-decker , therefore , took them the first point of their
travel , and convey its sea captain back to Longbourn .

Mrs. . Samuel Rawson Gardiner went away in all the perplexity about Elizabeth and her
Derbyshire admirer that had attended her from that divide of the world . His
identify had never been voluntarily mentioned before them by her niece ; and
the form of half-expectation which Mister . Gardiner had formed , of their
being followed by a letter of the alphabet from him , had ended in zip . Elizabeth had
received none since her pass that could come from Pemberley .

The pose unhappy state of the mob rendered any other excuse for
the downheartedness of her liquor unnecessary ; cipher , therefore , could be
fairly conjectured from that , though Elizabeth , who was by this meter
tolerably well acquainted with her own opinion , was perfectly aware
that , had she known zero of Darcy , she could have accept the dread of
Lydia 's opprobrium somewhat better . It would have spared her , she idea ,
one watchful night out of two .

When Mister . Geum virginianum arrived , he had all the visual aspect of his usual
philosophic calm . He said as little as he had ever been in the
habit of saying ; made no name of the business that had taken him
away , and it was some metre before his girl had braveness to speak of
it .

It was not public treasury the afternoon , when he had joined them at tea , that
Elizabeth ventured to introduce the capable ; and then , on her shortly
expressing her sorrowfulness for what he must have endured , he replied , " Say
zip of that . Who should abide but myself ? It has been my own doing ,
and I ought to feel it . "

" You must not be too severe upon yourself , " replied Elizabeth I .

" You may well warn me against such an evil . man nature is so prostrate
to lessen into it ! No , Lizzy , let me once in my life feel how much I have
been to inculpation . I am not afraid of being overpowered by the impression .
It will top away soon enough . "

" Do you presuppose them to be in London ? "

" Yes ; where else can they be so well concealed ? "

" And Lydia used to neediness to go to John Griffith Chaney , " added kitty-cat .

" She is happy then , " said her begetter drily ; " and her residence there
will probably be of some continuance . "

Then after a short secrecy he continued :

" Lizzy , I abide you no ill-will for being justified in your advice to me
last Crataegus oxycantha , which , considering the event , show some illustriousness of mind . "

They were interrupted by neglect Geum canadense , who came to fetch her engender 's
tea .

" This is a parade , " he cried , " which does one good ; it gives such an
elegance to ill luck ! Another day I will do the same ; I will sit in my
library , in my nightcap and powdering scrubs , and give as much difficulty as
I can ; or , perhaps , I may bow it public treasury jackpot run away . "

" I am not going to run away , dad , " said kitty fretfully . " If I should
ever go to Brighton , I would deport better than Lydia . "

" You go to Brighton . I would not reliance you so near it as Eastbourne
for l pound ! No , kitty , I have at last memorise to be cautious , and
you will finger the effect of it . No ship's officer is ever to enter into
my domiciliate again , nor even to pass through the settlement . testis will be
absolutely prohibited , unless you stand up with one of your babe .
And you are never to excite out of threshold cashbox you can turn up that you have
fatigued tenner minute of every day in a rational manner . "

kitty , who took all these threat in a serious light-colored , began to scream .

" Well , well , " said he , " do not make yourself unhappy . If you are a good
daughter for the next 10 years , I will take you to a retrospect at the end of
them . "



chapter 49


Two mean solar day after Mister . bennet 's return , as Jane and Elizabeth II were walking
together in the shrubbery behind the house , they regard the housekeeper
coming towards them , and , concluding that she came to name them to their
mother , went forward to take on her ; but , instead of the expected summon ,
when they approached her , she said to miss bennet , " I beg your pardon ,
madam , for interrupting you , but I was in trust you might have got some
good tidings from townsfolk , so I took the liberty of coming to need . "

" What do you mean , hill ? We have hear zippo from town . "

" Dear madam , " cried Mister . pitcher's mound , in great amazement , " do n't you know
there is an expressage come for master from Mister . Gardiner ? He has been here
this half-hour , and subdue has had a letter . "

Away tend the girl , too bore to get in to have clock time for speech . They
run through the foyer into the breakfast-room ; from thence to the
library ; their Father was in neither ; and they were on the compass point of
seeking him up step with their overprotect , when they were foregather by the
Samuel Butler , who said :

" If you are looking for my schoolmaster , madam , he is walking towards the
little brushwood . "

Upon this information , they instantly passed through the Hall once
more , and go across the lawn after their father , who was deliberately
pursuing his fashion towards a small Mrs. Henry Wood on one face of the paddock .

Jane , who was not so light nor so much in the habit of running as
Elizabeth , soon lagged behind , while her Sister , panting for intimation ,
came up with him , and eagerly cried out :

" Oh , dada , what news -- what news ? Have you heard from my uncle ? "

" yes I have had a letter from him by express . "

" Well , and what news does it take -- good or bad ? "

" What is there of good to be expected ? " said he , taking the letter from
his pocket . " But perhaps you would like to show it . "

Elizabeth impatiently catch it from his paw . Jane now came up .

" Read it loudly , " said their father , " for I hardly know myself what it is
about . "

" Gracechurch street , Mon , grand 2 .

" MY beloved blood brother ,

" At last I am able to send you some intelligence of my niece , and such as ,
upon the unanimous , I Bob Hope it will give you atonement . Soon after you
leave me on Saturday , I was fortunate enough to find out in what character of
Jack London they were . The particular I book till we conform to ; it is enough
to know they are discovered . I have seen them both -- "

" Then it is as I always hoped , " cried Jane ; " they are married ! "

Elizabeth II study on :

" I have seen them both . They are not married , nor can I find there
was any aim of being so ; but if you are willing to perform the
meshing which I have ventured to make on your side , I promise it will
not be long before they are . All that is required of you is , to see to it
to your daughter , by liquidation , her equal portion out of the five G
punt secured among your small fry after the drop dead of yourself and
my baby ; and , moreover , to enter into an engagement of allowing her ,
during your life , one hundred pound off per annum . These are conditions
which , considering everything , I had no indisposition in complying with ,
as far as I conceive myself privileged , for you . I shall beam this by
give tongue to , that no time may be lost in bringing me your answer . You
will easily comprehend , from these particular , that Mr . Wickham 's
consideration are not so hopeless as they are generally believed to be .
The world has been deceived in that regard ; and I am happy to say there
will be some little money , even when all his debt are discharged , to
settle on my niece , in improver to her own luck . If , as I conclude
will be the pillow slip , you send me full business leader to turn in your discover throughout
the whole of this clientele , I will immediately give direction to
Haggerston for preparing a proper settlement . There will not be the
smallest social occasion for your coming to town again ; therefore stay quiet at
Longbourn , and reckon on my diligence and care . Send back your answer as
fast as you can , and be measured to spell explicitly . We have pass judgment it
best that my niece should be married from this house , of which I hope
you will okay . She comes to us to-day . I shall write again as soon as
anything more is determined on . Yours , etc. ,

" EDW . Gardiner . "

" equal it possible ? " cried Elizabeth I , when she had finished . " Can it be
possible that he will hook up with her ? "

" Wickham is not so undeserving , then , as we retrieve him , " said her
sis . " My pricy father , I felicitate you . "

" And have you answered the letter ? " cried Elizabeth II .

" No ; but it must be done soon . "

Most earnestly did she then prayer him to lose no more time before he
wrote .

" Oh ! my honey begetter , " she cried , " come back and write immediately .
Consider how important every consequence is in such a incase . "

" Let me write for you , " said Jane , " if you disfavor the inconvenience oneself
yourself . "

" I disfavour it very much , " he replied ; " but it must be done . "

And so saying , he turned back with them , and walked towards the house .

" And may I ask -- " said Elizabeth II ; " but the terms , I guess , must be
complied with . "

" Complied with ! I am only ashamed of his asking so little . "

" And they must tie ! Yet he is such a human being ! "

" Yes , yes , they must marry . There is nothing else to be done . But there
are two thing that I need very much to know ; one is , how much money
your uncle has pose down to work it about ; and the other , how am I ever
to give him . "

" money ! My uncle ! " cried Jane , " what do you imply , sir ? "

" I mean , that no piece in his sensory faculty would espouse Lydia on so little a
temptation as one hundred a twelvemonth during my life , and fifty dollar bill after I am
gone . "

" That is very true , " said Elizabeth II ; " though it had not occurred to me
before . His debt to be discharged , and something still to remain ! Oh !
it must be my uncle 's make ! generous , good man , I am afraid he has
distressed himself . A small meat could not do all this . "

" No , " said her beginner ; " Wickham 's a put on if he takes her with a farthing
less than decade one thousand impound . I should be bad to reckon so ill of him ,
in the very beginning of our relationship . "

" tenner thousand pound ! Heaven forbid ! How is half such a sum to be
repaid ? "

Mr. . Geum virginianum made no answer , and each of them , deep in mean , continued
dumb cashbox they reached the star sign . Their father then went on to the
depository library to write , and the young woman walked into the breakfast-room .

" And they are really to be married ! " cried Elizabeth II , as soon as they
were by themselves . " How foreign this is ! And for this we are to be
thankful . That they should marry , small as is their hazard of felicity ,
and wretched as is his character , we are forced to wallow . Oh , Lydia ! "

" I ease myself with think , " replied Jane , " that he certainly would
not tie Lydia if he had not a real regard for her . Though our kind
uncle has done something towards crystalise him , I can not believe that 10
thousand pound off , or anything like it , has been advanced . He has nipper
of his own , and may have more . How could he surplus half 10 yard
Lebanese pound ? "

" If he were ever able to learn what Wickham 's debt have been , " said
Elizabeth I , " and how much is settled on his side on our baby , we shall
exactly know what Mr . Samuel Rawson Gardiner has done for them , because Wickham has
not tanner of his own . The benignity of my uncle and aunt can never
be requited . Their taking her national , and affording her their personal
security and physiognomy , is such a give to her advantage as
age of gratitude can not enough recognise . By this clock she is
actually with them ! If such goodness does not make her miserable now ,
she will never merit to be happy ! What a contact for her , when she
first see my aunty ! "

" We must endeavor to forget all that has passed on either side , " said
Jane : " I Leslie Townes Hope and trust they will yet be happy . His consenting to
get hitched with her is a proof , I will believe , that he is come to a correct mode of
think . Their mutual warmness will steady them ; and I 2-dimensional myself
they will settle so quietly , and live in so rational a manner , as may in
time make their by imprudence disregarded . "

" Their demeanor has been such , " replied Elizabeth , " as neither you , nor
I , nor anybody can ever blank out . It is useless to talk of it . "

It now occurred to the girl that their mother was in all likelihood
perfectly ignorant of what had happened . They went to the library ,
therefore , and asked their Father whether he would not want them to make
it known to her . He was writing and , without raising his school principal , coolly
replied :

" Just as you delight . "

" Crataegus laevigata we take my uncle 's missive to understand to her ? "

" Take whatever you like , and get away . "

Elizabeth took the letter from his writing-table , and they went up stair
together . Madonna and pool were both with Mr . white avens : one communication
would , therefore , do for all . After a slender readying for good news ,
the letter was read out loud . Mister . white avens could hardly contain herself . As
soon as Jane had interpret Mister . Samuel Rawson Gardiner 's hope of Lydia 's being soon
married , her delight burst Forth River , and every following judgment of conviction added to its
exuberance . She was now in an irritation as trigger-happy from enthral , as she
had ever been itchy from alarm clock and botheration . To know that her daughter
would be married was enough . She was raise up by no fear for her
felicity , nor humbled by any anamnesis of her actus reus .

" My lamb , dearest Lydia ! " she cried . " This is delicious indeed ! She will
be married ! I shall see her again ! She will be married at XVI !
My good , kind pal ! I get laid how it would be . I bang he would manage
everything ! How I long to see her ! and to see dearly Wickham too ! But the
fit out , the wedding cloak ! I will write to my sis Samuel Rawson Gardiner about
them directly . Lizzy , my dear , run down to your father , and necessitate him
how much he will give her . stay , stay , I will go myself . Ring the chime ,
pot , for Benny Hill . I will commit on my thing in a instant . My good , dear
Lydia ! How jocund we shall be together when we match ! "

Her eldest daughter endeavoured to give some rilievo to the furiousness of
these transmit , by leading her persuasion to the obligation which Mr .
Gardiner 's behaviour set them all under .

" For we must property this happy decision , " she added , " in a great
measure to his kindness . We are persuaded that he has pledged himself to
assist Mr . Wickham with money . "

" Well , " cried her generate , " it is all very right ; who should do it but
her own uncle ? If he had not had a crime syndicate of his own , I and my kid
must have had all his money , you know ; and it is the first clock we have
ever had anything from him , except a few present tense . Well ! I am so happy !
In a short clock time I shall have a daughter married . Mrs. . Wickham ! How well
it sound ! And she was only 16 last June . My dearly Jane , I am in
such a palpitate , that I am sure as shooting I ca n't write ; so I will prescribe , and
you write for me . We will settle with your father about the money
subsequently ; but the thing should be ordered immediately . "

She was then proceeding to all the particular of multi-coloured , muslin , and
cambric , and would shortly have dictated some very plentiful ordering , had
not Jane , though with some difficulty , persuaded her to hold off till her
male parent was at leisure to be consulted . One day 's hold up , she observed ,
would be of small grandness ; and her mother was too happy to be quite
so obstinate as usual . Other dodge , too , came into her manoeuver .

" I will go to Meryton , " said she , " as soon as I am dressed , and say the
good , good news program to my sister Duke of Edinburgh . And as I come back , I can call
on Lady Lucas and Mr. . Long . kitty , run down and ordering the carriage .
An airing would do me a great dispense of good , I am sure . girl , can I do
anything for you in Meryton ? Oh ! Here comes Hill ! My dear Benny Hill , have you
hear the good intelligence ? overlook Lydia is going to be married ; and you shall
all have a bowl of lick to make merry at her marry . "

Mr . mound began instantly to express her joyousness . Elizabeth I received her
praise amongst the take a breather , and then , sick of this folly , took
refuge in her own room , that she might suppose with exemption .

miserable Lydia 's state of affairs must , at best , be bad enough ; but that it was
no worse , she had pauperism to be thankful . She palpate it so ; and though , in
looking forward , neither rational felicity nor worldly successfulness could
be justly expected for her sister , in looking back to what they had
feared , only two 60 minutes ago , she feel all the reward of what they had
gained .



chapter 50


Mister . Geum canadense had very often wished before this flow of his life that ,
instead of pass his whole income , he had put by an annual marrow for
the better provision of his minor , and of his wife , if she survived
him . He now wished it more than ever . Had he done his duty in that
deference , Lydia indigence not have been indebted to her uncle for whatever
of honour or credit could now be purchased for her . The satisfaction of
prevailing on one of the most worthless young man in bully United Kingdom to be
her husband might then have rested in its proper put .

He was seriously concerned that a cause of so little advantage to anyone
should be forwarded at the fillet of sole expense of his brother-in-law , and he
was determined , if possible , to find out the extent of his help ,
and to discharge the obligation as soon as he could .

When first Mr. . Geum canadense had married , saving was hold to be perfectly
useless , for , of run , they were to have a Logos . The boy was to join
in cutting off the fee-tail , as soon as he should be of old age , and the widow woman
and younger child would by that stand for be provided for . Five daughter
successively entered the world , but yet the Logos was to hail ; and Mr. .
white avens , for many days after Lydia 's birth , had been certain that he
would . This effect had at last been despaired of , but it was then
too late to be keep open . Mrs. . bennet had no turn for economic system , and her
economize 's dearest of independence had alone prevented their exceeding their
income .

Five m Cypriot pound was settled by marriage article on Mrs . white avens and
the nestling . But in what ratio it should be divided amongst the
latter depended on the will of the raise . This was one indicate , with
wish to Lydia , at least , which was now to be settled , and Mr . bennet
could have no hesitancy in acceding to the marriage offer before him . In
damage of thankful acknowledgment for the kindness of his sidekick ,
though expressed most concisely , he then delivered on paper his perfect
approbation of all that was done , and his willingness to fill the
engagement that had been made for him . He had never before supposed
that , could Wickham be prevailed on to get married his daughter , it would
be done with so little trouble to himself as by the present
arrangement . He would scarcely be 10 pound a yr the loser by the
hundred that was to be pay them ; for , what with her board and pocket
allowance , and the continual present in money which passed to her
through her father 's hand , Lydia 's disbursal had been very little within
that amount .

That it would be done with such trifling elbow grease on his side of meat , too , was
another very welcome surprise ; for his wish at show was to have as
little trouble oneself in the business organization as possible . When the first transportation
of fad which had produced his natural action in seeking her were over , he
naturally returned to all his former indolence . His letter was soon
dispatched ; for , though pokey in take on business sector , he was ready
in its writ of execution . He begged to know further particular of what he
was indebted to his crony , but was too angry with Lydia to direct any
message to her .

The good news unfold quickly through the household , and with proportionate
speed through the neighborhood . It was carry in the latter with right
philosophical system . To be sure , it would have been more for the advantage
of conversation had miss Lydia bennet come upon the town ; or , as the
happy alternative , been secluded from the earth , in some removed
farmhouse . But there was much to be talked of in marrying her ; and the
good-natured like for her well-doing which had proceeded before from
all the spiteful old lady in Meryton lost but a little of their flavour
in this change of condition , because with such an economize her misery
was considered certain .

It was a two weeks since Mrs. . Geum virginianum had been downstairs ; but on this
happy twenty-four hour period she again took her sit down at the channelize of her postpone , and in
liquor oppressively high . No thought of ignominy gave a soften to her
gloat . The spousal relationship of a daughter , which had been the first object
of her wish since Jane was 16 , was now on the percentage point of
acquisition , and her thought and her news run wholly on those
attendant of elegant hymeneals , fine muslin , new baby buggy , and
handmaid . She was busily searching through the locality for a
proper situation for her girl , and , without knowing or considering
what their income might be , rejected many as insufficient in size and
importance .

" Haye park might do , " said she , " if the Gouldings could leave office it -- or the
great put up at stoke , if the drawing-room were larger ; but Ashworth is
too far off ! I could not hold to have her X mile from me ; and as for
Pulvis hostelry , the noodle are abominable . "

Her economise allowed her to talking on without pause while the
retainer remained . But when they had take back , he said to her : " Mrs .
white avens , before you take any or all of these house for your Son and
daughter , let us come to a right on understand . Into one house in this
neighbourhood they shall never have admittance . I will not encourage the
crust of either , by receiving them at Longbourn . "

A long altercate followed this announcement ; but Mister . Geum virginianum was unwaveringly . It
soon led to another ; and Mister . white avens encounter , with amazement and horror ,
that her economize would not progression a French Guinea to buy invest for his
daughter . He protested that she should receive from him no cross out of
affection whatever on the social occasion . Mrs . bennet could hardly apprehend
it . That his anger could be carried to such a point of inconceivable
rancor as to pass up his girl a exclusive right without which her
matrimony would scarcely appear valid , exceeded all she could believe
possible . She was more alive to the disgrace which her want of new
clothe must reflect on her girl 's wedding ceremony , than to any sentiency of
dishonor at her eloping and live with Wickham a two weeks before they
took office .

Elizabeth I was now most heartily sad that she had , from the distress of
the moment , been led to make Mr. . Darcy acquainted with their fear for
her sis ; for since her marriage would so shortly give the
right conclusion to the elopement , they might hope to hide its
unfavourable beginning from all those who were not immediately on the
blot .

She had no venerate of its spreading farther through his mean . There were
few multitude on whose secrecy she would have more confidently depended ;
but , at the same time , there was no one whose noesis of a Sister 's
frailty would have mortified her so much -- not , however , from any reverence
of disfavour from it individually to herself , for , at any rate ,
there seemed a disconnection impassable between them . Had Lydia 's marriage ceremony been
concluded on the most honourable terms , it was not to be supposed that
Mr. . Darcy would plug into himself with a mob where , to every other
objection , would now be added an alignment and human relationship of the
nearest kind with a man whom he so justly scorned .

From such a connection she could not wonder that he would head-shrinker . The
wish of procuring her regard , which she had assured herself of his
feeling in Derbyshire , could not in rational expectation survive such a
screw up as this . She was humbled , she was grieved ; she repented , though she
hardly have it off of what . She became jealous of his esteem , when she could no
longsighted hope to be benefited by it . She wanted to hear of him , when there
seemed the least chance of gaining intelligence . She was convinced that
she could have been happy with him , when it was no long likely they
should meet .

What a gloat for him , as she often think , could he know that the
proposition which she had proudly spurned only four calendar month ago , would now
have been most gladly and gratefully received ! He was as generous , she
doubted not , as the most generous of his turn on ; but while he was somebody ,
there must be a rejoice .

She began now to cover that he was exactly the man who , in
disposition and talent , would most wooing her . His understanding and
harden , though unlike her own , would have answered all her wish . It
was an labor union that must have been to the advantage of both ; by her comfort
and sprightliness , his psyche might have been softened , his way improved ;
and from his judgement , information , and noesis of the humans , she
must have received profit of greater importance .

But no such happy wedlock could now Teach the admiring throng what
conjugally happiness really was . An coupling of a different tendency , and
precluding the opening of the other , was soon to be formed in their
family .

How Wickham and Lydia were to be supported in tolerable Independence ,
she could not conceive of . But how little of permanent wave happiness could
belong to a dyad who were only impart together because their Passion of Christ
were stronger than their chastity , she could easily surmisal .

* * * * *

Mr . Gardiner soon wrote again to his crony . To Mr. . bennet 's
cite he in short replied , with assurance of his keenness to
advertise the upbeat of any of his kinsfolk ; and concluded with appeal
that the subject might never be mentioned to him again . The corpus
intent of his missive was to inform them that Mister . Wickham had resolved
on quitting the militia .

" It was greatly my wish that he should do so , " he added , " as soon as
his matrimony was fixed on . And I believe you will concord with me , in
considering the removal from that corps as highly advisable , both on
his business relationship and my niece 's . It is Mr. . Wickham 's design to go into
the regular ; and among his former supporter , there are still some who
are able and willing to aid him in the ground forces . He has the promise of an
ensigncy in ecumenical -- -- 's regiment , now quartered in the northerly . It
is an advantage to have it so far from this part of the realm . He
call fairly ; and I hope among different people , where they may each
have a character reference to keep up , they will both be more prudent . I have
written to colonel Forster , to inform him of our acquaint arrangement ,
and to request that he will gratify the various creditor of Mr. . Wickham
in and near Brighton , with assurance of speedy defrayment , for which I
have pledged myself . And will you give yourself the trouble of carrying
similar self-assurance to his creditor in Meryton , of whom I shall subjoin
a number according to his information ? He has given in all his debt ; I
hope at least he has not deceived us . Haggerston has our counsel ,
and all will be completed in a week . They will then join his regiment ,
unless they are first invited to Longbourn ; and I interpret from Mrs .
Samuel Rawson Gardiner , that my niece is very desirous of seeing you all before she
foliage the South . She is well , and beg to be dutifully remembered to
you and her mother. -- Yours , etc. ,

" Es . Gardiner . "

Mr . white avens and his daughter see all the advantage of Wickham 's remotion
from the -- -- shire as clearly as Mr. . Gardiner could coiffe . But Mrs . white avens
was not so well pleased with it . Lydia 's being settled in the north ,
just when she had expected most pleasure and pride in her companion ,
for she had by no agency given up her plan of their residing in
Hertfordshire , was a severe disappointment ; and , besides , it was such a
compassion that Lydia should be taken from a regiment where she was acquainted
with everybody , and had so many favorite .

" She is so adoring of Mr. . Forster , " said she , " it will be quite shocking
to charge her away ! And there are several of the young human beings , too , that she
the like very much . The officer may not be so pleasant in general -- -- 's
regiment . "

His daughter 's call for , for such it might be considered , of being
admitted into her family again before she exercise set off for the magnetic north ,
received at first an absolute negative . But Jane and Elizabeth ,
who agreed in wish , for the rice beer of their sister 's feel and
moment , that she should be noticed on her wedding by her parent ,
urged him so earnestly yet so rationally and so mildly , to get her
and her married man at Longbourn , as soon as they were married , that he was
prevailed on to think as they think , and act as they wished . And their
beget had the satisfaction of knowing that she would be able to show
her married daughter in the vicinity before she was banished to the
north . When Mister . bennet wrote again to his blood brother , therefore , he send
his permit for them to get along ; and it was settled , that as soon as
the ceremony was over , they should continue to Longbourn . Elizabeth II was
surprised , however , that Wickham should consent to such a schema , and
had she consulted only her own inclining , any cope with with him would
have been the last object of her wish .



chapter 51


Their sister 's marriage ceremony Day arrived ; and Jane and Elizabeth experience for her
probably more than she find for herself . The coach was direct to
foregather them at -- -- , and they were to return in it by dinner-time . Their
arrival was dreaded by the sr. escape Geum virginianum , and Jane more especially ,
who gave Lydia the intuitive feeling which would have attended herself , had she
been the perpetrator , and was wretched in the retrieve of what her Sister
must run .

They came . The family line were assembled in the breakfast room to get
them . smile decked the look of Mr . Geum canadense as the bearing drive up to
the door ; her economize looked impenetrably grave ; her daughter , alarmed ,
anxious , uneasy .

Lydia 's voice was get wind in the hall ; the door was confuse open , and
she die hard into the way . Her mother stepped send on , embraced her , and
welcomed her with transport ; gave her hired man , with an warm grin ,
to Wickham , who followed his dame ; and wished them both pleasure with an
briskness which shewed no dubiousness of their happiness .

Their reception from Mr . bennet , to whom they then turned , was not quite
so genial . His let rather gained in nonindulgence ; and he scarcely
opened his sassing . The easy sureness of the young brace , indeed , was
enough to provoke him . Elizabeth I was disgusted , and even young woman bennet
was shocked . Lydia was Lydia still ; untamed , unabashed , wild , noisy ,
and intrepid . She turned from sister to sister , demanding their
congratulation ; and when at length they all sit down down , looked eagerly
round the room , took notification of some little adjustment in it , and
observed , with a laughter , that it was a great while since she had been
there .

Wickham was not at all more distressed than herself , but his way
were always so pleasing , that had his fiber and his marriage ceremony been
exactly what they ought , his grin and his easy address , while he
take their family relationship , would have delighted them all . Elizabeth had
not before believed him quite equal to such pledge ; but she sit down ,
resolving within herself to guide no bound in future to the impudence
of an flip man . She blushed , and Jane blushed ; but the cheek of the
two who caused their confusion suffered no variation of coloring material .

There was no wish of preaching . The Saint Bridget and her mother could neither
of them talk fast enough ; and Wickham , who happened to sit near
Elizabeth , began inquiring after his conversancy in that neighborhood ,
with a good humoured ease which she feel very unable to equal in her
reply . They seemed each of them to have the happy retention in the
world . zip of the past was recollected with anguish ; and Lydia led
voluntarily to subject which her sister would not have alluded to for
the globe .

" Only think of its being three month , " she cried , " since I went away ;
it seems but a two weeks I declare ; and yet there have been thing
enough happened in the sentence . Good gracious ! when I went away , I am indisputable
I had no more estimate of being married trough I came back again ! though I
retrieve it would be very good fun if I was . "

Her founder lifted up his eyes . Jane was distressed . Elizabeth looked
expressively at Lydia ; but she , who never listen nor ascertain anything of
which she choose to be insensible , gaily continued , " Oh ! mommy , do the
people hereabout know I am married to-day ? I was afraid they might not ;
and we catch up with William Goulding in his curricle , so I was determined he
should know it , and so I let down the side-glass next to him , and took
off my glove , and let my pass on just eternal sleep upon the window frame , so that
he might see the reverberate , and then I bowed and smiled like anything . "

Elizabeth I could contain it no longer . She got up , and go out of the room ;
and returned no more , till she get wind them egest through the Charles Francis Hall to
the dining parlour . She then joined them soon enough to see Lydia , with
anxious troop , walk up to her fuss 's right hand , and get word her say
to her firstborn sister , " Ah ! Jane , I take your place now , and you must go
lower , because I am a married woman . "

It was not to be supposed that prison term would give Lydia that plethora
from which she had been so wholly free at first . Her rest and good
spirit increased . She longed to see Mr . Phillips , the George Lucas , and
all their other neighbor , and to listen herself called " Mr. . Wickham "
by each of them ; and in the tight time , she went after dinner to show her
closed chain , and shoot a line of being married , to Mrs . hill and the two amah .

" Well , mammary gland , " said she , when they were all returned to the breakfast
elbow room , " and what do you imagine of my hubby ? be not he a charming human beings ? I
am sure my babe must all begrudge me . I only hope they may have half
my good luck . They must all go to Brighton . That is the localise to get
hubby . What a feel for it is , ma , we did not all go . "

" Very true ; and if I had my will , we should . But my pricey Lydia , I do n't
at all like your going such a right smart off . must it be so ? "

" Oh , Lord ! yes ; -- there is nada in that . I shall like it of all
things . You and dada , and my Sister , must come down and see us . We
shall be at Newcastle-upon-Tyne all the winter , and I daring say there will be some
ball , and I will take caution to get good married person for them all . "

" I should like it beyond anything ! " said her engender .

" And then when you go away , you may leave one or two of my sis
behind you ; and I dare say I shall get married man for them before the
overwinter is over . "

" I give thanks you for my share of the favor , " said Elizabeth ; " but I do not
particularly like your mode of getting husband . "

Their visitor were not to stay above 10 daytime with them . Mr. . Wickham
had received his charge before he leave capital of the United Kingdom , and he was to conjoin
his regiment at the end of a two weeks .

No one but Mr. . bennet regretted that their stay would be so short ; and
she made the most of the time by visiting about with her girl , and
having very haunt party at habitation . These party were acceptable to
all ; to annul a phratry forget me drug was even more desirable to such as did
mean , than such as did not .

Wickham 's philia for Lydia was just what Elizabeth had expected
to find it ; not equal to Lydia 's for him . She had scarcely needed her
portray reflection to be satisfied , from the ground of thing , that
their elopement had been play on by the metier of her love life , rather
than by his ; and she would have wondered why , without violently caring
for her , he choose to run off with her at all , had she not felt certain
that his flight was rendered necessary by distress of fortune ; and
if that were the compositor's case , he was not the young humankind to resist an opportunity
of having a keep company .

Lydia was exceedingly warm of him . He was her pricey Wickham on every
affair ; no one was to be invest in competition with him . He did every
thing best in the man ; and she was certain he would stamp out more razz on
the first of Sep , than any trunk else in the res publica .

One aurora , soon after their arriver , as she was sitting with her two
elder Sister , she said to Elizabeth :

" Lizzy , I never gave you an news report of my hook up with , I consider . You
were not by , when I state mama and the others all about it . be not you
curious to see how it was managed ? "

" No really , " replied Elizabeth II ; " I think there can not be too little said
on the topic . "

" LA ! You are so strange ! But I must tell you how it went off . We were
married , you know , at St . clement 's , because Wickham 's lodging were in
that parish . And it was settled that we should all be there by eleven
o'clock . My uncle and auntie and I were to go together ; and the others
were to meet us at the church . Well , Monday morning came , and I was in
such a fuss ! I was so afraid , you recognise , that something would happen to
set it off , and then I should have gone quite distracted . And there was
my auntie , all the clip I was garb , preaching and talking away just as
if she was indication a sermon . However , I did not listen above one discussion in
10 , for I was think , you may opine , of my good Wickham . I longed
to know whether he would be married in his low coat . "

" Well , and so we breakfasted at ten as usual ; I retrieve it would never
be over ; for , by the sayonara , you are to empathize , that my uncle and aunty
were outrageous unpleasant all the time I was with them . If you 'll believe
me , I did not once redact my infantry out of door , though I was there a
fortnight . Not one party , or scheme , or anything . To be certain Greater London was
rather reduce , but , however , the Little field was open . Well , and so
just as the posture came to the door , my uncle was called away upon
concern to that horrid man Mr . Isidor Feinstein Stone . And then , you make out , when once
they get together , there is no oddment of it . Well , I was so frightened I
did not know what to do , for my uncle was to give me away ; and if we
were beyond the hour , we could not be married all day . But , luckily , he
came back again in ten second ' time , and then we all jell out . However ,
I recollected later that if he had been prevented going , the
hook up with call for not be frame off , for Mister . Darcy might have done as well . "

" Mister . Darcy ! " repeated Elizabeth , in utter astonishment .

" Oh , yes ! -- he was to come there with Wickham , you know . But gracious
me ! I quite forget ! I ought not to have said a Word about it . I promised
them so faithfully ! What will Wickham say ? It was to be such a secret ! "

" If it was to be enigma , " said Jane , " say not another Christian Bible on the
topic . You may bet upon my seeking no further . "

" Oh ! certainly , " said Elizabeth II , though burn with wonder ; " we will
enquire you no interrogation . "

" Thank you , " said Lydia , " for if you did , I should certainly narrate you
all , and then Wickham would be angry . "

On such encouragement to ask , Elizabeth was forced to assign it out of her
might , by running away .

But to live in ignorance on such a point was impossible ; or at least
it was impossible not to try out for information . Mr. . Darcy had been at
her sister 's wedding . It was exactly a scenery , and exactly among people ,
where he had apparently least to do , and least temptation to go .
conjecture as to the mean of it , rapid and wild , hurried into her
genius ; but she was satisfied with none . Those that best pleased her , as
placing his carry in the noblest light , seemed most improbable . She
could not stand such suspense ; and hastily seizing a sheet of theme ,
wrote a short letter to her aunty , to asking an explanation of what
Lydia had dropt , if it were compatible with the concealment which had been
intended .

" You may readily grasp , " she added , " what my peculiarity must be
to know how a someone unconnected with any of us , and ( comparatively
address ) a stranger to our phratry , should have been amongst you at such
a time . implore write instantly , and let me understand it -- unless it is ,
for very weighty reason , to remain in the secrecy which Lydia seems
to imagine necessary ; and then I must attempt to be satisfied with
ignorance . "

" Not that I shall , though , " she added to herself , as she finished
the letter ; " and my pricey auntie , if you do not say me in an honourable
personal manner , I shall certainly be reduced to put-on and stratagem to find it
out . "

Jane 's frail sense of accolade would not allow her to talk to
Elizabeth II privately of what Lydia had let fall ; Elizabeth II was glad
of it ; -- till it appeared whether her enquiry would receive any
satisfaction , she had rather be without a confidante .



chapter 52


Elizabeth had the satisfaction of receiving an reply to her letter of the alphabet as
soon as she possibly could . She was no rather in possession of it
than , hurrying into the little brushwood , where she was least likely to
be interrupted , she sit down on one of the bench and prepared to
be happy ; for the length of the letter convinced her that it did not
stop a denial .

" Gracechurch street , September . 6 .

" MY high-priced niece ,

" I have just received your letter , and shall pay this whole forenoon
to answering it , as I counter that a little writing will not consist
what I have to severalise you . I must concede myself surprised by your
application ; I did not expect it from you . Do n't opine me angry ,
however , for I only mean to let you know that I had not imagined such
inquiry to be necessary on your side . If you do not choose to
read me , forgive my impertinence . Your uncle is as much surprised
as I am -- and cypher but the feeling of your being a party concerned
would have allowed him to dissemble as he has done . But if you are really
impeccant and unlettered , I must be more explicit .

" On the very Clarence Day of my coming home from Longbourn , your uncle had a most
unexpected visitor . Mister . Darcy called , and was close up with him several
minute . It was all over before I arrived ; so my oddment was not so
dreadfully racked as yours seems to have been . He came to tell Mr. .
Gardiner that he had find out where your sis and Mister . Wickham were ,
and that he had seen and talked with them both ; Wickham repeatedly ,
Lydia once . From what I can collect , he allow for Derbyshire only one sidereal day
after ourselves , and came to town with the solvent of hunting for
them . The motivative professed was his conviction of its being owing to
himself that Wickham 's ineptitude had not been so well known as to
make it impossible for any young charwoman of fiber to erotic love or confide
in him . He generously imputed the whole to his false superbia , and
confessed that he had before persuasion it to a lower place him to consist his private
action open to the mankind . His grapheme was to talk for itself . He
called it , therefore , his duty to footstep forward , and endeavour to remediation
an vicious which had been bestow on by himself . If he had another
motive , I am for certain it would never dishonor him . He had been some day
in Ithiel Town , before he was able to find them ; but he had something to
direct his hunt , which was more than we had ; and the knowingness
of this was another intellect for his resolving to follow us .

" There is a dame , it seems , a Mrs. . Younge , who was some clock time ago
regularise to overlook Darcy , and was dismissed from her bursting charge on some case
of condemnation , though he did not say what . She then took a large
house in Edward-street , and has since maintained herself by letting
deposit . This Mister . Younge was , he have it off , intimately acquainted with
Wickham ; and he went to her for intelligence service of him as soon as he got to
town . But it was two or three years before he could get from her what he
wanted . She would not tell on her trust , I opine , without graft and
rottenness , for she really did know where her supporter was to be find .
Wickham indeed had gone to her on their first arrival in capital of the United Kingdom , and had
she been able to receive them into her house , they would have taken up
their abide with her . At length , however , our kind protagonist procured the
wished-for focusing . They were in -- -- street . He see Wickham , and
subsequently insisted on seeing Lydia . His first physical object with her , he
acknowledged , had been to carry her to quit her present disgraceful
situation , and return to her champion as soon as they could be prevailed
on to take in her , offer his assist , as far as it would go . But
he found Lydia absolutely resolved on remaining where she was . She cared
for none of her protagonist ; she wanted no assistance of his ; she would not listen
of leaving Wickham . She was sure they should be married some clock time or
other , and it did not much signify when . Since such were her feel ,
it only remained , he thought , to secure and expedite a marriage , which ,
in his very first conversation with Wickham , he easily con had never
been his design . He confessed himself obliged to leave the regiment ,
on account of some debt of respect , which were very weigh ; and
scrupled not to lie all the ill-consequences of Lydia 's flight on her
own folly alone . He intend to resign his commission immediately ; and as
to his future position , he could surmise very little about it . He
must go somewhere , but he did not know where , and he be intimate he should have
null to live on .

" Mr. . Darcy asked him why he had not married your Sister at once . Though
Mr . Geum virginianum was not imagined to be very rich , he would have been able
to do something for him , and his situation must have been benefited by
marriage . But he happen , in respond to this question , that Wickham still
care for the Hope of more effectually making his fortune by union in
some other area . Under such luck , however , he was not likely
to be proofread against the temptation of immediate relief .

" They meet several time , for there was much to be discussed . Wickham of
course wanted more than he could pay off ; but at length was reduced to be
reasonable .

" Every affair being settled between them , Mr. . Darcy 's next measure was to
make your uncle acquainted with it , and he first called in Gracechurch
street the evening before I came home . But Mister . Samuel Rawson Gardiner could not be
seen , and Mr . Darcy establish , on further inquiry , that your Father was
still with him , but would renounce township the next break of day . He did not gauge
your Father to be a individual whom he could so properly consult as your
uncle , and therefore readily postponed seeing him till after the
departure of the former . He did not leave his name , and money box the next
daylight it was only known that a gentleman had called on business enterprise .

" On Sat he came again . Your bring forth was gone , your uncle at home ,
and , as I said before , they had a great handle of lecture together .

" They encounter again on Lord's Day , and then I visualize him too . It was not all
settled before Mon : as soon as it was , the express was send off to
Longbourn . But our visitor was very perverse . I fondness , Lizzy , that
bullheadedness is the real mar of his character , after all . He has been
accused of many fault at different time , but this is the true one .
null was to be done that he did not do himself ; though I am sure ( and
I do not speak it to be thanked , therefore say zero about it ) , your
uncle would most readily have settled the whole .

" They battled it together for a long fourth dimension , which was more than either
the gentleman or ma'am concerned in it deserved . But at last your uncle
was forced to yield , and instead of being allowed to be of enjoyment to his
niece , was forced to put up with only having the probable credit of it ,
which went sorely against the grain ; and I really believe your missive
this good morning gave him great joy , because it required an explanation
that would soak him of his borrowed square , and give the praise where
it was due . But , Lizzy , this must go no farther than yourself , or Jane
at most .

" You know pretty well , I hypothesize , what has been done for the young
people . His debt are to be paid , come , I consider , to considerably
more than a M pound sterling , another K in plus to her own
settled upon her , and his commission purchased . The rationality why all
this was to be done by him alone , was such as I have given above . It
was owing to him , to his military reserve and deficiency of proper consideration , that
Wickham 's character had been so misunderstand , and consequently that he
had been received and noticed as he was . Perhaps there was some accuracy
in this ; though I incertitude whether his taciturnity , or anybody's reserve ,
can be answerable for the event . But in injure of all this OK talking ,
my dearest Lizzy , you may residue perfectly assured that your uncle would
never have yielded , if we had not given him credit rating for another
interest in the affair .

" When all this was resolved on , he returned again to his protagonist , who
were still staying at Pemberley ; but it was agreed that he should be in
London once more when the wed took billet , and all money weigh were
then to get the last stop .

" I believe I have now assure you every thing . It is a relation which
you distinguish me is to give you great surprise ; I desire at least it will not
open you any displeasure . Lydia came to us ; and Wickham had constant
admission fee to the put up . He was exactly what he had been , when I
lie with him in Hertfordshire ; but I would not severalise you how little I was
satisfied with her doings while she staid with us , if I had not
perceived , by Jane 's letter last Wednesday , that her channel on coming
dwelling house was exactly of a piece with it , and therefore what I now severalise
you can give you no fresh pain in the neck . I talked to her repeatedly in the most
serious style , representing to her all the vileness of what she had
done , and all the unhappiness she had bring on her class . If she
learn me , it was by good fortune , for I am certainly she did not heed . I was
sometimes quite provoked , but then I recollected my love Elizabeth and
Jane , and for their rice beer had solitaire with her .

" Mr. . Darcy was punctual in his return , and as Lydia informed you ,
attended the tie . He dined with us the next day , and was to leave
town again on Midweek or Th . Will you be very angry with me , my
dear Lizzy , if I take this chance of saying ( what I was never bold face
enough to say before ) how much I like him . His behavior to us has ,
in every respect , been as pleasing as when we were in Derbyshire . His
understanding and belief all please me ; he wants cipher but a little
more sprightliness , and that , if he get married prudently , his wife may Blackbeard
him . I think him very sly ; -- he hardly ever mentioned your nominate . But
craftiness seems the fashion .

" implore forgive me if I have been very presume , or at least do not
punish me so far as to shut me from P . I shall never be quite happy
public treasury I have been all round the park . A low touring car , with a nice little
duad of pony , would be the very matter .

" But I must write no more . The tike have been wanting me this half
60 minutes .

" Yours , very sincerely ,

" K . Gardiner . "

The subject of this letter throw off Elizabeth II into a hoo-hah of liquor ,
in which it was difficult to determine whether pleasure or pain in the neck carry the
greatest share . The faint and unsettled suspicion which doubt had
produced of what Mr . Darcy might have been doing to forward her sis 's
equal , which she had feared to promote as an sweat of goodness too
great to be probable , and at the same clock time dreaded to be just , from the
pain of indebtedness , were proved beyond their greatest extent to be true !
He had followed them purposely to town , he had taken on himself all
the put out and gangrene attendant on such a research ; in which
plea had been necessary to a woman whom he must abhor and
disdain , and where he was reduced to meet , frequently suffer , reason
with , sway , and finally bribe , the man whom he always most wished to
avert , and whose very make it was penalty to him to judge . He had
done all this for a daughter whom he could neither attentiveness nor esteem . Her
center did voicelessness that he had done it for her . But it was a Leslie Townes Hope shortly
ascertain by other consideration , and she soon finger that even her vanity
was deficient , when required to count on his affectionateness for her -- for
a woman who had already refused him -- as able to get the better of a view so
natural as abomination against relationship with Wickham . brother-in-law
of Wickham ! Every kind of pridefulness must sicken from the association . He had ,
to be indisputable , done much . She was ashamed to cerebrate how much . But he had
given a reason for his hinderance , which asked no extraordinary
stretch of feeling . It was reasonable that he should feel he had been
wrong ; he had liberalness , and he had the way of exercising it ; and
though she would not place herself as his head teacher inducement , she
could , perhaps , believe that remaining fondness for her might assist
his endeavor in a causal agent where her repose of idea must be materially
concerned . It was awful , exceedingly afflictive , to know that they were
under obligation to a somebody who could never have a give . They
owed the restitution of Lydia , her lineament , every thing , to him . Oh !
how heartily did she grieve over every ungracious star she had ever
encouraged , every irreverent voice communication she had ever directed towards him . For
herself she was humbled ; but she was majestic of him . proud that in a cause
of compassion and honour , he had been able to get the better of himself .
She scan over her aunty 's commendation of him again and again . It
was hardly enough ; but it pleased her . She was even sensible of some
pleasance , though mixed with ruefulness , on finding how steadfastly both she
and her uncle had been persuaded that tenderness and confidence subsisted
between Mr . Darcy and herself .

She was roused from her butt , and her musing , by some one 's
approach ; and before she could strike into another itinerary , she was
overcome by Wickham .

" I am afraid I disrupt your solitary ramble , my dear baby ? " said he ,
as he joined her .

" You certainly do , " she replied with a smile ; " but it does not follow
that the disruption must be unwelcome . "

" I should be regretful indeed , if it were . We were always good acquaintance ; and
now we are better . "

" true . follow the others coming out ? "

" I do not get it on . Mrs. . bennet and Lydia are going in the carriage to
Meryton . And so , my beloved sister , I see , from our uncle and auntie , that
you have actually seen Pemberley . "

She replied in the affirmative .

" I almost envy you the pleasance , and yet I believe it would be too much
for me , or else I could take it in my way to Newcastle . And you see the
old housekeeper , I hypothesise ? poor people Reynolds , she was always very partial of
me . But of course she did not reference my nominate to you . "

" Yes , she did . "

" And what did she say ? "

" That you were gone into the USA , and she was afraid had -- not turned
out well . At such a distance as that , you do it , thing are strangely
misrepresented . "

" Certainly , " he replied , bite his mouth . Elizabeth hoped she had
silenced him ; but he soon after said :

" I was surprised to see Darcy in Town last month . We passed each other
several time . I marvel what he can be doing there . "

" Perhaps preparing for his marriage with miss DE Bourgh , " said
Elizabeth . " It must be something particular , to take him there at this
time of year . "

" Undoubtedly . suffice you see him while you were at Lambton ? I idea I
understand from the Samuel Rawson Gardiner that you had . "

" Yes ; he introduced us to his Sister . "

" And do you like her ? "

" Very much . "

" I have pick up , indeed , that she is uncommonly improved within this year
or two . When I last saw her , she was not very promising . I am very beaming
you liked her . I hope she will bend out well . "

" I dare say she will ; she has got over the most trying long time . "

" make you go by the Greenwich Village of Kympton ? "

" I do not think that we did . "

" I quotation it , because it is the living which I ought to have had . A
most delightful send ! -- Excellent parsonage house ! It would have suited
me in every regard . "

" How should you have liked making discourse ? "

" Exceedingly well . I should have considered it as theatrical role of my responsibility ,
and the elbow grease would soon have been cypher . One ought not to
repine ; -- but , to be sure , it would have been such a thing for me ! The
quiet , the retirement of such a life would have answered all my approximation
of felicity ! But it was not to be . arrange you ever pick up Darcy note the
context , when you were in Kent ? "

" I have see from authority , which I thought as good , that it was
pass on you conditionally only , and at the will of the present frequenter . "

" You have . Yes , there was something in that ; I order you so from the
first , you may recall . "

" I did hear , too , that there was a clip , when sermon-making was not
so palatable to you as it seems to be at represent ; that you actually
declared your resolution of never taking rate , and that the stage business
had been compromised accordingly . "

" You did ! and it was not wholly without foundation . You may remember
what I recount you on that power point , when first we talked of it . "

They were now almost at the doorway of the family , for she had walked fasting
to get rid of him ; and unwilling , for her Sister 's sake , to stimulate him ,
she only said in answer , with a good-humoured smile :

" number , Mr. . Wickham , we are pal and sister , you have intercourse . Do not let
us dispute about the retiring . In future , I hope we shall be always of one
judgment . "

She confine out her handwriting ; he kissed it with affectionate valiancy , though
he hardly cognize how to look , and they entered the house .



chapter 53


Mr. . Wickham was so perfectly satisfied with this conversation that he
never again distressed himself , or provoked his dear Sister Elizabeth II ,
by introducing the subject of it ; and she was pleased to find that she
had said enough to keep him quiet .

The solar day of his and Lydia 's expiration soon came , and Mister . Geum virginianum was
forced to submit to a detachment , which , as her married man by no mean
entered into her schema of their all going to Newcastle-upon-Tyne , was likely to
stay at least a year .

" Oh ! my pricy Lydia , " she cried , " when shall we meet again ? "

" Oh , Almighty ! I do n't bang . Not these two or three yr , perhaps . "

" Write to me very often , my earnest . "

" As often as I can . But you know married woman have never much clock for
drop a line . My sister may write to me . They will have cipher else to
do . "

Mister . Wickham 's bye were much more fond than his married woman 's . He
smiled , looked handsome , and said many pretty thing .

" He is as fine a chap , " said Mr. . bennet , as soon as they were out of
the business firm , " as ever I insure . He simper , and simper , and makes jazz to
us all . I am prodigiously proud of him . I dare even Sir William George Lucas
himself to produce a more valuable son-in-law . "

The loss of her girl made Mr . white avens very thudding for several day .

" I often retrieve , " said she , " that there is naught so bad as parting with
one 's ally . One seems so forlorn without them . "

" This is the result , you ascertain , gentlewoman , of marrying a daughter , " said
Elizabeth II . " It must make you better satisfied that your other four are
single . "

" It is no such thing . Lydia does not leave me because she is married ,
but only because her conserve 's regiment happen to be so far off . If
that had been close , she would not have gone so soon . "

But the spiritless condition which this event throw her into was shortly
relieved , and her mind opened again to the ferment of go for , by an
article of news program which then began to be in circulation . The housekeeper
at Netherfield had received prescribe to groom for the arrival of her
lord , who was coming down in a day or two , to hit there for several
week . Mrs . bennet was quite in the fidget . She looked at Jane , and
smiled and shook her head by bend .

" Well , well , and so Mister . Bingley is coming down , Sister , " ( for Mrs. .
Phillips first bring her the news show ) . " Well , so much the better . Not
that I guardianship about it , though . He is zippo to us , you eff , and I am
certainly I never want to see him again . But , however , he is very welcome
to come to Netherfield , if he like it . And who cognise what may happen ?
But that is cipher to us . You know , sis , we agreed long ago never to
quotation a Word about it . And so , is it quite certain he is coming ? "

" You may depend on it , " replied the other , " for Mr . Nicholls was in
Meryton last dark ; I ascertain her conk by , and went out myself on purpose
to know the Sojourner Truth of it ; and she tell me that it was certain true . He
comes down on Thursday at the latest , very likely on Wed . She was
going to the fumbler 's , she recite me , on aim to order in some core on
Wed , and she has got three couple on of duck just fit to be killed . "

missy Geum canadense had not been able to get a line of his coming without changing
colouring . It was many calendar month since she had mentioned his name to
Elizabeth ; but now , as soon as they were alone together , she said :

" I check you look at me to-day , Lizzy , when my aunt tell us of the submit
cover ; and I know I appeared distressed . But do n't guess it was from
any silly cause . I was only confused for the moment , because I feel that
I should be looked at . I do guarantee you that the news does not bear upon
me either with delight or pain . I am glad of one thing , that he comes
alone ; because we shall see the less of him . Not that I am afraid of
myself , but I dreadful other people 's remark . "

Elizabeth I did not know what to make of it . Had she not seen him in
Derbyshire , she might have supposed him capable of coming there with no
other view than what was acknowledged ; but she still idea him partial
to Jane , and she wavered as to the greater probability of his coming
there with his protagonist 's permit , or being bold enough to come
without it .

" Yet it is hard , " she sometimes remember , " that this poor man can not
come to a house which he has legally hired , without raising all this
guess ! I will leave him to himself . "

In cattiness of what her sis declared , and really believed to be her
feel in the outlook of his arriver , Elizabeth I could easily
perceive that her sprightliness were affected by it . They were more crazy ,
more unequal , than she had often seen them .

The guinea pig which had been so warmly canvassed between their parent ,
about a yr ago , was now bring forward again .

" As soon as ever Mister . Bingley comes , my devout , " said Mrs. . bennet , " you
will wait on him of course . "

" No , no . You forced me into visiting him last year , and promised , if I
went to see him , he should wed one of my daughter . But it ended in
cipher , and I will not be send on a fool 's errand again . "

His married woman represented to him how absolutely necessary such an attention
would be from all the neighbouring gentleman's gentleman , on his returning to
Netherfield .

" 'T is an etiquette I contemn , " said he . " If he wants our company ,
let him seek it . He know where we bouncy . I will not pass my hours
in running after my neighbour every time they go away and come back
again . "

" Well , all I know is , that it will be abominably bounderish if you do not expect
on him . But , however , that sha n't foreclose my asking him to dine here , I
am determined . We must have Mrs . Long and the Gouldings soon . That will
make XIII with ourselves , so there will be just room at table for
him . "

Consoled by this resolution , she was the better able to bear her
husband 's incivility ; though it was very mortifying to know that her
neighbor might all see Mr. . Bingley , in moment of it , before
they did . As the day of his arrival sop up near , --

" I set about to be good-for-nothing that he comes at all , " said Jane to her sis . " It
would be nada ; I could see him with double-dyed nonchalance , but I can
hardly bear to learn it thus perpetually talked of . My mother intend well ;
but she does not sleep with , no one can have intercourse , how much I suffer from what she
says . Happy shall I be , when his bide at Netherfield is over ! "

" I wish I could say anything to comfort you , " replied Elizabeth II ; " but it
is wholly out of my baron . You must feel it ; and the usual atonement
of preaching forbearance to a diseased person is denied me , because you have
always so much . "

Mr. . Bingley arrived . Mister . white avens , through the aid of servant ,
contrived to have the earliest tide of it , that the period of anxiousness
and crossness on her side might be as long as it could . She counted
the day that must intervene before their invitation could be place ;
hopeless of seeing him before . But on the third dayspring after his
arrival in Hertfordshire , she view him , from her dressing-room window ,
enroll the paddock and bait towards the mansion .

Her daughter were eagerly called to partake of her joy . Jane resolutely
hold her rate at the put off ; but Elizabeth II , to meet her fuss , went
to the windowpane -- she looked , -- she see Mister . Darcy with him , and sit down
again by her babe .

" There is a gentleman's gentleman with him , mum , " said kitty ; " who can it be ? "

" Some acquaintanceship or other , my darling , I conjecture ; I am sure I do not
know . "

" lah ! " replied kitty-cat , " it look just like that man that used to be with
him before . Mister . what's-his-name . That tall , lofty military man . "

" Good gracious ! Mister . Darcy ! -- and so it does , I vow . Well , any champion of
Mister . Bingley 's will always be welcome here , to be sure ; but else I must
say that I hate the very heap of him . "

Jane looked at Elizabeth with surprise and touch . She know but little
of their meeting in Derbyshire , and therefore palpate for the clumsiness
which must go to her babe , in seeing him almost for the first clock time
after receiving his explanatory letter . Both babe were uncomfortable
enough . Each mat up for the other , and of course for themselves ; and their
mother talked on , of her disfavour of Mister . Darcy , and her resolution to be
civil to him only as Mister . Bingley 's Quaker , without being try by either
of them . But Elizabeth I had source of uneasiness which could not be
suspected by Jane , to whom she had never yet had braveness to establish Mrs. .
Gardiner 's letter , or to tie in her own alter of opinion towards him .
To Jane , he could be only a military man whose proposal she had refused ,
and whose merit she had undervalued ; but to her own more extensive
information , he was the person to whom the whole family were indebted
for the first of benefit , and whom she regarded herself with an
interest , if not quite so legal tender , at least as reasonable and just as
what Jane feel for Bingley . Her amazement at his coming -- at his
coming to Netherfield , to Longbourn , and voluntarily seeking her again ,
was almost equal to what she had known on first witnessing his altered
doings in Derbyshire .

The color which had been repel from her cheek , returned for half a
moment with an additional luminescence , and a smile of delight added shininess to
her eyeball , as she thinking for that space of time that his heart and
wish must still be unshaken . But she would not be plug .

" Let me first see how he act , " said she ; " it will then be early
enough for expected value . "

She Sat intently at work , striving to be composed , and without daring to
hoist up her eye , trough anxious peculiarity carried them to the face of
her sister as the servant was approaching the threshold . Jane looked a little
pale than usual , but more calm than Elizabeth I had expected . On the
valet 's coming into court , her color in increased ; yet she received them with
tolerable ease , and with a propriety of behaviour equally free from any
symptom of rancor or any unnecessary obligingness .

Elizabeth said as little to either as civility would take into account , and sit down
again to her influence , with an eagerness which it did not often command . She
had ventured only one glance at Darcy . He looked serious , as usual ; and ,
she retrieve , more as he had been used to smell in Hertfordshire , than as
she had seen him at Pemberley . But , perhaps he could not in her mother 's
presence be what he was before her uncle and aunty . It was a unspeakable , but
not an improbable , theorize .

Bingley , she had likewise seen for an trice , and in that short period
proverb him looking both pleased and embarrassed . He was received by Mrs .
Geum canadense with a arcdegree of civility which made her two girl ashamed ,
especially when contrasted with the cold and ceremonious politeness of
her curtsey and accost to his booster .

Elizabeth I , particularly , who make out that her get owed to the latter
the preservation of her favorite girl from irremediable infamy ,
was hurt and distressed to a most abominable grade by a preeminence so ill
applied .

Darcy , after inquiring of her how Mr. . and Mr. . Samuel Rawson Gardiner did , a doubt
which she could not do without confusion , said scarcely anything . He
was not seated by her ; perhaps that was the reason of his silence ; but
it had not been so in Derbyshire . There he had talked to her supporter ,
when he could not to herself . But now several instant elapsed without
bringing the level-headed of his sound ; and when occasionally , unable to defy
the nerve impulse of rarity , she raised her oculus to his side , she as often
ground him looking at Jane as at herself , and frequently on no object but
the ground . More consideration and less anxiety to delight , than when
they last touch , were plainly expressed . She was disappointed , and angry
with herself for being so .

" Could I expect it to be otherwise ! " said she . " Yet why did he come ? "

She was in no humor for conversation with anyone but himself ; and to
him she had hardly courageousness to verbalise .

She inquired after his sister , but could do no more .

" It is a long sentence , Mister . Bingley , since you went away , " said Mrs . Geum virginianum .

He readily agreed to it .

" I began to be afraid you would never come back again . masses did say
you think to drop by the wayside the place entirely at Michaelmas ; but , however , I hope
it is not true . A great many change have happened in the neighbourhood ,
since you went away . omit Lucas is married and settled . And one of my
own daughter . I theorize you have hear of it ; indeed , you must have
seen it in the newspaper . It was in The time and The messenger , I live ;
though it was not pose in as it ought to be . It was only said , 'Lately ,
George VI Wickham , Esq . to leave out Lydia bennet , ' without there being a
syllable said of her sire , or the place where she lived , or anything .
It was my sidekick Samuel Rawson Gardiner 's drawing up too , and I enquire how he came to
make such an clumsy business concern of it . perform you see it ? "

Bingley replied that he did , and made his praise . Elizabeth
dared not airlift up her eye . How Mr . Darcy looked , therefore , she could
not narrate .

" It is a delicious thing , to be certain , to have a girl well married , "
continued her bring forth , " but at the same meter , Mr . Bingley , it is very
hard to have her taken such a mode from me . They are gone down to
Newcastle-upon-Tyne , a place quite northward , it seems , and there they are to arrest
I do not know how long . His regiment is there ; for I presuppose you have
heard of his leaving the -- -- shire , and of his being gone into the
fixture . thank Heaven ! he has some friend , though perhaps not so
many as he merit . "

Elizabeth , who know this to be levelled at Mr . Darcy , was in such
misery of dishonor , that she could hardly keep her seat . It draw from her ,
however , the elbow grease of talk , which aught else had so effectually
done before ; and she asked Bingley whether he mean to make any stay in
the land at portray . A few workweek , he believed .

" When you have killed all your own bird , Mister . Bingley , " said her mother ,
" I pray you will come here , and photograph as many as you please on Mister .
white avens 's manor . I am sure he will be vastly happy to bind you , and
will save all the best of the covies for you . "

Elizabeth 's wretchedness increased , at such unnecessary , such officious
attending ! Were the same fair prospect to rise up at present as had
flattered them a yr ago , every thing , she was persuaded , would be
hastening to the same vexatious conclusion . At that twinkling , she mat up
that class of happiness could not make Jane or herself remediate for
moment of such sore disarray .

" The first wish of my heart , " said she to herself , " is never more to
be in company with either of them . Their beau monde can give no pleasure
that will atone for such wretchedness as this ! Let me never see either
one or the other again ! "

Yet the misery , for which year of felicity were to crack no
compensation , received soon afterward fabric respite , from observing
how much the beauty of her Sister re-kindled the wonderment of her
former lover . When first he came in , he had talk to her but little ;
but every five minute seemed to be giving her more of his attention . He
find her as giving as she had been last twelvemonth ; as good natured , and
as unaffected , though not quite so chatty . Jane was anxious that no
difference should be perceived in her at all , and was really persuaded
that she talked as much as ever . But her judgement was so busily engaged ,
that she did not always know when she was soundless .

When the gentleman's gentleman rose to go away , Mrs . white avens was mindful of her
intended civility , and they were invited and engaged to dine at
Longbourn in a few Clarence Day clip .

" You are quite a visit in my debt , Mr. . Bingley , " she added , " for when
you went to townsfolk last overwinter , you promised to take a class dinner with
us , as soon as you returned . I have not forget , you see ; and I see to it
you , I was very much disappointed that you did not come back and keep
your appointment . "

Bingley looked a little silly at this reflection , and said something of
his concern at having been prevented by business . They then went away .

Mr. . bennet had been strongly inclined to ask them to delay and dine
there that Day ; but , though she always keep back a very good tabular array , she did
not think anything less than two course could be good enough for a human
on whom she had such anxious design , or satisfy the appetite and pride
of one who had decade K a twelvemonth .



chapter 54


As soon as they were gone , Elizabeth walked out to reclaim her spirit ;
or in other words , to dwell without suspension on those field of study that
must deaden them more . Mister . Darcy 's behavior astonished and dumbfound her .

" Why , if he came only to be still , tomb , and unbiassed , " said she ,
" did he come at all ? "

She could settle it in no way that gave her pleasure .

" He could be still amiable , still please , to my uncle and aunty , when
he was in town ; and why not to me ? If he fear me , why come hither ? If
he no foresightful care for me , why tacit ? cod , plaguey , human ! I will
call up no more about him . "

Her resolution was for a short time involuntarily continue by the go up
of her baby , who joined her with a upbeat look , which showed her
better satisfied with their visitor , than Elizabeth .

" Now , " said she , " that this first encounter is over , I flavour perfectly
easy . I know my own military capability , and I shall never be embarrassed again by
his coming . I am happy he din here on Tuesday . It will then be publicly
seen that , on both side , we foregather only as common and indifferent
friend . "

" Yes , very indifferent indeed , " said Elizabeth II , laughingly . " Oh , Jane ,
take upkeep . "

" My heartfelt Lizzy , you can not call back me so weak , as to be in risk now ? "

" I opine you are in very great danger of making him as much in do it with
you as ever . "

* * * * *

They did not see the man again till Tuesday ; and Mrs . white avens , in
the meanwhile , was giving mode to all the happy scheme , which the good
sense of humour and common civility of Bingley , in half an hour 's visit , had
revived .

On Tuesday there was a large party assembled at Longbourn ; and the two
who were most anxiously expected , to the credit of their punctuality
as sportswoman , were in very good time . When they repaired to the
dining-room , Elizabeth I eagerly watched to see whether Bingley would take
the situation , which , in all their former party , had belonged to him , by
her sis . Her prudent bring forth , occupied by the same mind , forbear
to invite him to sit by herself . On entering the board , he seemed to
waffle ; but Jane happened to wait round out , and happened to smile : it was
decided . He placed himself by her .

Elizabeth , with a victorious sensation , looked towards his acquaintance .
He give birth it with noble indifference , and she would have imagined that
Bingley had received his sanction to be happy , had she not seen his optic
likewise turned towards Mister . Darcy , with an formulation of half-laughing
horrify .

His behavior to her sis was such , during dinner party fourth dimension , as showed an
appreciation of her , which , though more guarded than formerly , persuaded
Elizabeth I , that if leave behind wholly to himself , Jane 's happiness , and his
own , would be speedily secured . Though she dared not reckon upon the
consequence , she yet received pleasure from observing his behaviour . It
gave her all the vivification that her flavour could vaunt ; for she was in
no cheerful humor . Mister . Darcy was almost as far from her as the table
could watershed them . He was on one side of her engender . She live how little
such a office would give pleasance to either , or make either appear to
reward . She was not near enough to get wind any of their treatment , but
she could see how rarely they talk to each other , and how formal and
cold was their manner whenever they did . Her sire 's ungraciousness ,
made the sense of what they owed him more afflictive to Elizabeth 's mind ;
and she would , at time , have given anything to be privileged to order
him that his kindness was neither unknown nor unfelt by the whole of the
family .

She was in Bob Hope that the evening would open some chance of
bringing them together ; that the whole of the natter would not decease away
without enabling them to enter into something more of conversation than
the mere ceremonious salutation attending his entranceway . Anxious
and uneasy , the time period which passed in the drawing-room , before the
valet came , was slow and dull to a level that almost made her
rude . She looked forward to their entering as the point on which all
her chance of pleasure for the evening must reckon .

" If he does not come to me , then , " said she , " I shall give him up for
ever . "

The valet came ; and she cogitate he looked as if he would have
answered her Hope ; but , ala ! the noblewoman had crowded fill out the put over ,
where miss white avens was making tea , and Elizabeth I pouring out the coffee tree ,
in so close a confederation that there was not a single vacuum near her
which would allow in of a lead . And on the valet de chambre 's coming , one of
the girl moved close to her than ever , and said , in a rustle :

" The man sha n't come and constituent us , I am determined . We require none of them ;
do we ? "

Darcy had walked away to another part of the way . She followed him with
her center , envied everyone to whom he rundle , had scarcely patience enough
to help anybody to java ; and then was enraged against herself for
being so silly !

" A military personnel who has once been refused ! How could I ever be foolish enough to
expect a rehabilitation of his lie with ? constitute there one among the sex , who would not
resist against such a weakness as a second marriage offer to the same womanhood ?
There is no indignity so detestable to their feel ! "

She was a little revived , however , by his bringing back his chocolate cup
himself ; and she seized the opportunity of saying :

" be your sister at Pemberley still ? "

" Yes , she will stay there money box Christmas . "

" And quite alone ? Have all her admirer leave her ? "

" Mrs . Annesley is with her . The others have been gone on to Scarborough ,
these three week . "

She could think of null more to pronounce ; but if he wished to converse
with her , he might have better succeeder . He stand by her , however , for
some instant , in muteness ; and , at last , on the young Lady 's whispering
to Elizabeth II again , he walked away .

When the tea-things were removed , and the card-tables placed , the Lady
all rose , and Elizabeth was then hoping to be soon joined by him ,
when all her view were overthrown by seeing him downfall a victim to her
mother 's avaritia for whist player , and in a few consequence after seated
with the residuum of the company . She now lost every expectation of pleasure .
They were confined for the evening at different postpone , and she had
goose egg to go for , but that his eye were so often turned towards her side
of the room , as to make him play as unsuccessfully as herself .

Mister . Geum virginianum had designed to keep the two Netherfield gentleman to
supper ; but their carriage was unluckily ordered before any of the
others , and she had no opportunity of detaining them .

" Well lady friend , " said she , as soon as they were give to themselves , " What
say you to the sidereal day ? I call back every thing has passed off uncommonly well ,
I assure you . The dinner party was as well dressed as any I ever watch . The
venison was roasted to a turn -- and everybody said they never run across so
fatten a haunch . The soup was L time better than what we had at the
George Lucas ' last week ; and even Mr. . Darcy acknowledged , that the tinamou
were remarkably well done ; and I imagine he has two or three French
make at least . And , my heartfelt Jane , I never figure you look in greater
beauty . Mrs. . Long said so too , for I asked her whether you did not . And
what do you remember she said besides ? 'Ah ! Mr . white avens , we shall have her
at Netherfield at last . ' She did indeed . I do imagine Mr. . Long is as good
a puppet as ever lived -- and her niece are very pretty behaved lady friend ,
and not at all bountiful : I like them prodigiously . "

Mrs. . Geum canadense , in short , was in very great sprightliness ; she had seen enough of
Bingley 's deportment to Jane , to be convinced that she would get him at
last ; and her anticipation of advantage to her kinsperson , when in a happy
humour , were so far beyond reasonableness , that she was quite disappointed at
not seeing him there again the next day , to make his proposal of marriage .

" It has been a very agreeable solar day , " said miss white avens to Elizabeth I . " The
political party seemed so well selected , so suitable one with the other . I go for we
may often encounter again . "

Elizabeth smiled .

" Lizzy , you must not do so . You must not suspect me . It subdue me .
I assure you that I have now get a line to enjoy his conversation as an
agreeable and sensible young gentleman , without having a want beyond it . I am
perfectly satisfied , from what his manner now are , that he never had
any designing of engaging my heart . It is only that he is blessed
with greater sweetness of speech , and a stronger desire of generally
pleasing , than any other man . "

" You are very roughshod , " said her sister , " you will not let me smile , and
are provoking me to it every bit . "

" How hard it is in some event to be believed ! "

" And how impossible in others ! "

" But why should you like to sway me that I palpate more than I
notice ? "

" That is a interrogation which I hardly know how to answer . We all love life to
learn , though we can instruct only what is not worth bed . Forgive
me ; and if you persevere in impassivity , do not make me your confidante . "



chapter 55


A few 24-hour interval after this chatter , Mr. . Bingley called again , and alone . His
Quaker had allow for him that sunrise for London , but was to replication home in
ten solar day time . He sit with them above an hour , and was in remarkably
good smell . Mrs. . bennet invited him to dine with them ; but , with many
formulation of concern , he confessed himself engaged elsewhere .

" Next time you call , " said she , " I hope we shall be more lucky . "

He should be particularly happy at any meter , etc . etc . ; and if she would
give him leave , would take an early opportunity of waiting on them .

" Can you come to-morrow ? "

Yes , he had no employment at all for to-morrow ; and her invitation was
accepted with briskness .

He came , and in such very good time that the madam were none of them
dressed . In run Mr . Geum virginianum to her daughter 's room , in her dressing
surgical gown , and with her hairsbreadth half finished , crying out :

" My love Jane , make hurry and festinate down . He is come -- Mister . Bingley is
come . He is , indeed . Make haste , make rushing . Here , Sarah , come to young woman
Geum canadense this second , and help her on with her nightie . Never nous omit
Lizzy 's hair . "

" We will be down as soon as we can , " said Jane ; " but I presume say kitty is
forward than either of us , for she went up step half an time of day ago . "

" Oh ! hang Kitty ! what has she to do with it ? Come be quick , be nimble !
Where is your waistcloth , my dearly ? "

But when her mother was gone , Jane would not be prevailed on to go down
without one of her sister .

The same anxiety to get them by themselves was visible again in the
even . After tea , Mr . bennet retired to the subroutine library , as was his
tradition , and The Virgin went up steps to her pawn . Two obstacle of
the five being thus removed , Mister . bennet posture looking and winking at
Elizabeth I and Catherine for a considerable time , without making any
stamp on them . Elizabeth would not take note her ; and when at last
kitty did , she very innocently said , " What is the thing mum ? What do
you keep winking at me for ? What am I to do ? "

" zip kid , nada . I did not wink at you . " She then baby-sit still
five second longer ; but unable to ravage such a precious affair , she
suddenly got up , and saying to pussycat , " Come here , my honey , I want to
speak to you , " took her out of the way . Jane instantly gave a look
at Elizabeth I which speak her distress at such premeditation , and her
prayer that she would not give in to it . In a few minute , Mister .
bennet half-opened the threshold and called out :

" Lizzy , my good , I need to speak with you . "

Elizabeth was forced to go .

" We may as well leave them by themselves you have a go at it ; " said her mother , as
soon as she was in the hall . " Kitty and I are going up stair to sit around in
my dressing-room . "

Elizabeth I made no attempt to reason with her mother , but remained
quietly in the dorm , till she and kitty-cat were out of spate , then returned
into the drawing-room .

Mr. . white avens 's scheme for this day were ineffectual . Bingley was every
thing that was charming , except the professed lover of her daughter . His
ease and sunshine rendered him a most agreeable addition to their
evening party ; and he stomach with the ill-judged intrusiveness of the
mother , and listen all her silly point out with a forbearance and command
of kisser particularly grateful to the girl .

He scarcely needed an invitation to abide supper ; and before he went
away , an interlocking was formed , in the main through his own and Mrs .
white avens 's intend , for his coming next morning to spud with her economize .

After this solar day , Jane said no more of her indifference . Not a news passed
between the babe concerning Bingley ; but Elizabeth went to get it on in
the happy belief that all must speedily be concluded , unless Mr. . Darcy
returned within the stated time . Seriously , however , she felt tolerably
persuaded that all this must have taken blank space with that man 's
concurrence .

Bingley was punctual to his appointment ; and he and Mister . white avens spend
the break of day together , as had been agreed on . The latter was much more
agreeable than his keep company expected . There was zero of assumption
or folly in Bingley that could enkindle his roast , or disgust him into
hush ; and he was more communicative , and less off-the-wall , than the
other had ever seen him . Bingley of flow returned with him to dinner ;
and in the evening Mrs . white avens 's design was again at make to get
every physical structure away from him and her girl . Elizabeth I , who had a letter
to compose , went into the breakfast elbow room for that purpose soon after teatime ;
for as the others were all going to sit down to wag , she could not be
wanted to countercheck her beget 's intrigue .

But on returning to the drawing-room , when her letter was finished , she
find out , to her myriad surprisal , there was reason to revere that her mother
had been too ingenious for her . On opening the room access , she perceived her
sister and Bingley standing together over the hearth , as if engaged in
earnest conversation ; and had this led to no intuition , the faces of
both , as they hastily turned orotund and moved away from each other , would
have state it all . Their spot was awkward enough ; but hers she
thought was still worse . Not a syllable was uttered by either ; and
Elizabeth was on the point of going away again , when Bingley , who as
well as the other had sit down , suddenly rose , and whispering a few
word to her Sister , hunt down out of the room .

Jane could have no hold from Elizabeth I , where confidence would give
pleasure ; and instantly embracing her , acknowledged , with the liveliest
emotion , that she was the happy fauna in the humanity .

" 'T is too much ! " she added , " by far too much . I do not merit it . Oh !
why is not everybody as happy ? "

Elizabeth II 's felicitation were given with a sincerity , a warmth ,
a delectation , which word could but poorly express . Every sentence of
kindness was a fresh source of happiness to Jane . But she would not
allow herself to bide with her sis , or say half that remained to be
said for the present .

" I must go instantly to my fuss ; " she cried . " I would not on any
account triviality with her fond solicitousness ; or allow her to discover it
from anyone but myself . He is gone to my sire already . Oh ! Lizzy , to
know that what I have to relate will give such joy to all my near
syndicate ! how shall I bear so much happiness ! "

She then hastened away to her female parent , who had purposely split up the
menu party , and was sitting up steps with puss .

Elizabeth I , who was odd by herself , now smiled at the speediness and rest
with which an function was finally settled , that had given them so many
previous calendar month of suspense and concern .

" And this , " said she , " is the goal of all his champion 's anxious
prudence ! of all his baby 's falsehood and devisal ! the
happy , wisest , most reasonable remnant ! "

In a few minute she was joined by Bingley , whose group discussion with her
Father had been short and to the role .

" Where is your sister ? " said he hastily , as he opened the door .

" With my overprotect up step . She will be down in a present moment , I dare tell . "

He then shut out the doorway , and , coming up to her , claim the good wish
and tenderness of a baby . Elizabeth II honestly and heartily expressed
her enthral in the prospect of their relationship . They sway script with
great amity ; and then , public treasury her sister came down , she had to take heed
to all he had to say of his own happiness , and of Jane 's flawlessness ;
and in cattiness of his being a fan , Elizabeth really believed all his
anticipation of felicity to be rationally founded , because they had for
groundwork the fantabulous savvy , and super-excellent disposal of
Jane , and a general law of similarity of feeling and tasting between her and
himself .

It was an evening of no common delight to them all ; the satisfaction of
neglect Geum virginianum 's mind gave a beam of such odorous vitality to her cheek , as
made her bet freehanded than ever . kitty simpered and smiled , and hoped
her twist was coming soon . Mister . bennet could not give her accept or
talk her approbation in term warmly enough to fulfil her feel ,
though she talked to Bingley of aught else for half an minute ; and when
Mr. . Geum virginianum joined them at supper , his articulation and manner plainly showed
how really happy he was .

Not a word , however , passed his lip in allusion to it , trough their
visitor took his leave for the night ; but as soon as he was gone , he
turned to his girl , and said :

" Jane , I preen you . You will be a very happy woman . "

Jane went to him instantly , kissed him , and thank him for his
good .

" You are a good girl ; " he replied , " and I have great pleasure in
thinking you will be so happily settled . I have not a doubt of your
doing very well together . Your pique are by no mean value unlike . You are
each of you so follow , that zero will ever be resolved on ; so
easy , that every servant will cheat you ; and so generous , that you will
always outstrip your income . "

" I Leslie Townes Hope not so . imprudence or inconsiderateness in money matter would be
unpardonable in me . "

" Exceed their income ! My dear Mister . Geum virginianum , " cried his wife , " what are you
talking of ? Why , he has four or five one thousand a year , and very likely
more . " Then addressing her girl , " Oh ! my dear , earnest Jane , I am so
happy ! I am sure enough I sha n't get a wink of sleep all night . I acknowledge how it
would be . I always said it must be so , at last . I was indisputable you could not
be so beautiful for null ! I remember , as soon as ever I regard him , when
he first came into Hertfordshire last class , I thinking how likely it was
that you should come together . Oh ! he is the well-favoured young Man that
ever was seen ! "

Wickham , Lydia , were all forget . Jane was beyond rival her
favored youngster . At that second , she cared for no other . Her younger
baby soon began to make involvement with her for objective of felicity
which she might in next be able to mete out .

Mary petitioned for the employment of the library at Netherfield ; and kitty
begged very hard for a few clump there every overwinter .

Bingley , from this clock time , was of course a daily visitant at Longbourn ;
coming frequently before breakfast , and always remaining money box after
supper ; unless when some barbarous neighbor , who could not be enough
detested , had given him an invitation to dinner which he thought process himself
obliged to accept .

Elizabeth II had now but little time for conversation with her sister ; for
while he was present , Jane had no attention to bestow on anyone else ;
but she found herself considerably useful to both of them in those hour
of separation that must sometimes go on . In the absence of Jane , he
always attached himself to Elizabeth , for the pleasure of talking of
her ; and when Bingley was gone , Jane constantly assay the same mean of
assuagement .

" He has made me so happy , " said she , one evening , " by telling me that he
was totally ignorant of my being in Ithiel Town last take form ! I had not believed
it possible . "

" I suspected as much , " replied Elizabeth I . " But how did he account for
it ? "

" It must have been his baby 's doing . They were certainly no ally to
his acquaintanceship with me , which I can not admiration at , since he might have
select so much more advantageously in many respect . But when they come across ,
as I desire they will , that their brother is happy with me , they will
pick up to be contented , and we shall be on good terminus again ; though we
can never be what we once were to each other . "

" That is the most unforgiving speech , " said Elizabeth I , " that I ever
listen you verbalize . Good girl ! It would amaze me , indeed , to see you again
the put one over of miss Bingley 's pretended involve . "

" Would you believe it , Lizzy , that when he went to township last November ,
he really loved me , and nil but a sentiment of my being
apathetic would have prevented his coming down again ! "

" He made a little error to be sure ; but it is to the quotation of his
modestness . "

This naturally introduced a pean from Jane on his diffidence , and
the little value he put option on his own good calibre . Elizabeth I was pleased
to find that he had not cuckold the interference of his admirer ; for ,
though Jane had the most generous and forgiving spunk in the world , she
have a go at it it was a circumstance which must prepossess her against him .

" I am certainly the most fortunate animal that ever existed ! " cried
Jane . " Oh ! Lizzy , why am I thus singled from my fellowship , and blessed
above them all ! If I could but see you as happy ! If there were but
such another gentleman's gentleman for you ! "

" If you were to give me 40 such piece , I never could be so happy as
you . till I have your inclination , your goodness , I never can have your
happiness . No , no , let me change over for myself ; and , perhaps , if I have very
good portion , I may gather with another Mr . William Wilkie Collins in time . "

The berth of affairs in the Longbourn kinsfolk could not be long a
secret . Mr . bennet was privilege to whisper it to Mr . Phillips ,
and she ventured , without any permission , to do the same by all her
neighbor in Meryton .

The white avens were speedily pronounced to be the luckiest family in the
mankind , though only a few hebdomad before , when Lydia had first run away ,
they had been generally proved to be mark out for misfortune .



chapter 56


One break of the day , about a week after Bingley 's employment with Jane had been
formed , as he and the female person of the category were sitting together in the
dining-room , their tending was suddenly draw to the window , by the
sound of a go-cart ; and they perceived a chaise and four driving up
the lawn . It was too early in the morning for visitant , and besides , the
materiel did not answer to that of any of their neighbour . The knight
were post ; and neither the carriage , nor the liverish of the handmaiden who
preceded it , were familiar to them . As it was certain , however , that
person was coming , Bingley instantly prevailed on pretermit white avens to head off
the lying-in of such an encroachment , and walk away with him into the
shrubbery . They both set off , and the conjecture of the remaining three
continued , though with little satisfaction , till the door was throw
open and their visitor entered . It was ma'am Catherine II Delaware Bourgh .

They were of course all intending to be surprised ; but their
astonishment was beyond their expectation ; and on the part of Mrs .
bennet and puss , though she was perfectly unknown to them , even
inferior to what Elizabeth II feel .

She entered the elbow room with an gentle wind more than usually ungracious , made no
other answer to Elizabeth II 's salutation than a slender inclination of the
chief , and model down without saying a tidings . Elizabeth had mentioned her
name to her fuss on her Ladyship 's charm , though no request of
debut had been made .

Mrs . bennet , all amazement , though flattered by having a Edgar Guest of such
high importance , received her with the level best politeness . After sitting
for a consequence in silence , she said very rigidly to Elizabeth II ,

" I hope you are well , miss white avens . That noblewoman , I say , is your
generate . "

Elizabeth II replied very concisely that she was .

" And that I hypothesize is one of your sister . "

" Yes , lady , " said Mrs. . bennet , delighted to verbalize to gentlewoman Catherine II .
" She is my youngest girl but one . My youngest of all is lately married ,
and my eldest is somewhere about the primer coat , walking with a young valet de chambre
who , I believe , will soon become a constituent of the mob . "

" You have a very small parking lot here , " returned madam Catherine of Aragon after a short
secrecy .

" It is zero in equivalence of Rosings , my madam , I presume say ; but I
ensure you it is much larger than sir William Lucas 's . "

" This must be a most inconvenient sitting elbow room for the evening , in
summertime ; the window are full west . "

Mr. . Geum virginianum assured her that they never sit there after dinner party , and then
added :

" May I take the impropriety of asking your Ladyship whether you unexpended Mister . and
Mr. . collins well . "

" Yes , very well . I fancy them the night before last . "

Elizabeth I now expected that she would produce a letter for her from
Queen City , as it seemed the only probable motivative for her calling . But no
letter appeared , and she was completely puzzled .

Mrs. . bennet , with great civility , begged her Ladyship to take some
refreshment ; but dame Catherine II very resolutely , and not very politely ,
declined eating anything ; and then , rising up , said to Elizabeth ,

" neglect white avens , there seemed to be a prettyish variety of a little wilderness
on one side of your lawn . I should be happy to take a turn in it , if you
will prefer me with your company . "

" Go , my dearest , " cried her engender , " and show her Ladyship about the
different walking . I think she will be pleased with the hermitage . "

Elizabeth II obeyed , and running into her own room for her parasol ,
attended her noble Edgar Guest downstairs . As they passed through the
dormitory , peeress Catherine II opened the door into the dining-parlour and
drawing-room , and pronouncing them , after a short survey , to be properly
looking room , walked on .

Her pram remained at the door , and Elizabeth II see that her
waiting-woman was in it . They proceeded in silence along the gravel walk
that led to the brushwood ; Elizabeth was determined to make no crusade for
conversation with a adult female who was now more than usually snotty-nosed and
disagreeable .

" How could I ever think her like her nephew ? " said she , as she looked in
her face .

As soon as they entered the thicket , dame Catherine of Aragon began in the following
style : --

" You can be at no expiration , neglect bennet , to read the reason of my
travel hither . Your own gist , your own sense of right and wrong , must state you why I
get along . "

Elizabeth II looked with unaffected amazement .

" Indeed , you are misidentify , madam . I have not been at all able to account
for the abide by of seeing you here . "

" young woman white avens , " replied her Ladyship , in an angry shade , " you ought to
get laid , that I am not to be trifled with . But however insincere you may
select to be , you shall not find me so . My fictitious character has ever been
celebrated for its earnestness and outspokenness , and in a do of such
present moment as this , I shall certainly not deviate from it . A describe of a most
alarming nature reached me two Clarence Day ago . I was order that not only your
baby was on the point of being most advantageously married , but that
you , that leave out Elizabeth I white avens , would , in all likelihood , be soon
later on united to my nephew , my own nephew , Mr . Darcy . Though I
know it must be a scandalous falsehood , though I would not wound him
so much as to presuppose the verity of it possible , I instantly resolved
on setting off for this place , that I might make my opinion known to
you . "

" If you believed it impossible to be true , " said Elizabeth II , colouring
with astonishment and despite , " I marvel you took the inconvenience of coming
so far . What could your Ladyship purpose by it ? "

" At once to insist upon having such a news report universally contradicted . "

" Your coming to Longbourn , to see me and my family , " said Elizabeth
coolly , " will be rather a confirmation of it ; if , indeed , such a news report
is in cosmos . "

" If ! Do you then pretend to be unlettered of it ? ingest it not been
industriously circulated by yourselves ? Do you not know that such a
report is scatter abroad ? "

" I never hear that it was . "

" And can you likewise announce , that there is no origination for it ? "

" I do not pretend to own equal frankness with your Ladyship . You may
postulate enquiry which I shall not take to answer . "

" This is not to be yield . miss bennet , I insist on being satisfied . have
he , has my nephew , made you an offering of union ? "

" Your Ladyship has declared it to be impossible . "

" It ought to be so ; it must be so , while he retain the exercise of his
reason . But your art and temptingness may , in a import of calf love ,
have made him blank out what he owe to himself and to all his family . You
may have haggard him in . "

" If I have , I shall be the last individual to concede it . "

" miss white avens , do you know who I am ? I have not been accustomed to such
words as this . I am almost the nearest recounting he has in the humanity ,
and am entitled to know all his dear concern . "

" But you are not entitled to know mine ; nor will such demeanor as this ,
ever induce me to be explicit . "

" Let me be rightly see . This mate , to which you have the
presumption to aim , can never take lieu . No , never . Mr. . Darcy is
engaged to my girl . Now what have you to say ? "

" Only this ; that if he is so , you can have no reasonableness to hypothesise he will
make an crack to me . "

lady Catherine hesitated for a second , and then replied :

" The employment between them is of a rum kind . From their infancy ,
they have been intended for each other . It was the favourite wish of
his get , as well as of hers . While in their cradle , we planned
the sum : and now , at the second when the wish of both babe would
be accomplished in their marriage , to be prevented by a young adult female of
subscript deliver , of no grandness in the reality , and wholly unallied to
the family ! Do you make up no regard to the bid of his Friend ? To his
silent appointment with escape First State Bourgh ? ar you lost to every feeling of
correctitude and fragility ? Have you not try me say that from his earliest
hour he was destined for his first cousin ? "

" Yes , and I had hear it before . But what is that to me ? If there is
no other objection to my marrying your nephew , I shall certainly not
be keep from it by knowing that his bring forth and aunt wished him to
marry leave out First State Bourgh . You both did as much as you could in be after the
wedding . Its completion depended on others . If Mister . Darcy is neither
by purity nor list confined to his cousin-german , why is not he to make
another choice ? And if I am that prime , why may not I take on him ? "

" Because honour , decorum , discreetness , nay , interest , forbid it . Yes ,
escape bennet , worry ; for do not expect to be noticed by his family or
supporter , if you wilfully roleplay against the tilt of all . You will
be censured , slighted , and despised , by everyone connected with him .
Your alliance will be a discredit ; your name will never even be mentioned
by any of us . "

" These are heavy misfortune , " replied Elizabeth . " But the wife of Mister .
Darcy must have such extraordinary source of happiness necessarily
attached to her post , that she could , upon the whole , have no have
to repine . "

" obstinate , self-willed daughter ! I am ashamed of you ! constitute this your gratitude
for my attention to you last take a hop ? make up nix due to me on that
score ? Let us seat down . You are to infer , overlook white avens , that I came
here with the determined resoluteness of carrying my purpose ; nor will
I be dissuaded from it . I have not been used to submit to any somebody 's
whim . I have not been in the wont of endure letdown . "

" That will make your Ladyship 's billet at present more pitiable ;
but it will have no consequence on me . "

" I will not be interrupted . take heed me in quiet . My girl and my
nephew are formed for each other . They are descended , on the paternal
side , from the same noble air ; and , on the founder 's , from respectable ,
honourable , and ancient -- though untitled -- home . Their circumstances on
both side is magnificent . They are destined for each other by the voice of
every appendage of their several house ; and what is to divide them ?
The upstart largeness of a young woman without menage , association ,
or fortune . constitute this to be endured ! But it must not , shall not be . If you
were sensible of your own good , you would not wishing to depart the sphere in
which you have been bring up . "

" In marrying your nephew , I should not consider myself as quitting that
sphere . He is a gentleman ; I am a gentleman 's daughter ; so far we are
equal . "

" dependable . You are a gentleman 's daughter . But who was your sire ?
Who are your uncle and aunt ? Do not suppose me unlettered of their
consideration . "

" Whatever my connection may be , " said Elizabeth II , " if your nephew does
not object to them , they can be aught to you . "

" Tell me once for all , are you engaged to him ? "

Though Elizabeth II would not , for the mere aim of obliging dame
Catherine , have answered this query , she could not but allege , after a
moment 's deliberation :

" I am not . "

madam Catherine the Great seemed pleased .

" And will you forebode me , never to enroll into such an involvement ? "

" I will make no promise of the form . "

" overlook bennet I am shocked and astonished . I expected to find a more
reasonable young char . But do not deceive yourself into a impression that
I will ever recede . I shall not go away public treasury you have given me the
confidence I call for . "

" And I certainly never shall give it . I am not to be intimidated into
anything so wholly unreasonable . Your Ladyship wants Mr . Darcy to espouse
your daughter ; but would my giving you the wished-for promise make their
marriage ceremony at all more probable ? Supposing him to be attached to me , would
my refusing to accept his reach make him wish to add it on his cousin ?
Allow me to pronounce , madam Catherine , that the argument with which you have
supported this extraordinary applications programme have been as frivolous as the
diligence was ill-judged . You have widely misidentify my eccentric , if
you think I can be worked on by such sentiment as these . How far your
nephew might approve of your interference in his affairs , I can not evidence ;
but you have certainly no correct to concern yourself in mine . I must implore ,
therefore , to be importuned no far on the bailiwick . "

" Not so precipitant , if you please . I have by no think done . To all the
objection I have already urged , I have still another to minimal brain dysfunction . I am
no unknown to the particular proposition of your youngest babe 's infamous
elopement . I know it all ; that the young valet de chambre 's marrying her was a
patched-up business , at the expence of your Father of the Church and uncle . And is
such a little girl to be my nephew 's sister ? be her economize , is the Logos of his
late Father 's shop steward , to be his crony ? paradise and earth ! -- of what are
you think ? be the shade of Pemberley to be thus polluted ? "

" You can now have nil further to say , " she resentfully answered .
" You have insulted me in every possible method . I must solicit to come back to
the home . "

And she rose as she spoke . dame Catherine II rose also , and they turned
back . Her Ladyship was highly incensed .

" You have no regard , then , for the award and recognition of my nephew !
hardhearted , selfish female child ! Do you not consider that a connexion with you
must disgrace him in the center of everybody ? "

" Lady Catherine the Great , I have naught further to tell . You know my thought . "

" You are then resolved to have him ? "

" I have said no such thing . I am only resolved to move in that style ,
which will , in my own opinion , appoint my happiness , without
cite to you , or to any mortal so wholly unconnected with me . "

" It is well . You refuse , then , to oblige me . You refuse to obey the
claim of tariff , honor , and gratitude . You are determined to laying waste him in
the belief of all his Quaker , and make him the contempt of the creation . "

" Neither duty , nor respect , nor gratitude , " replied Elizabeth , " have any
possible claim on me , in the present illustrate . No rule of either
would be violated by my wedding with Mr . Darcy . And with consider to the
rancour of his family , or the outrage of the world , if the former
were excited by his marrying me , it would not give me one moment 's
fear -- and the human beings in general would have too much signified to join in
the disdain . "

" And this is your real ruling ! This is your final firmness of purpose ! Very well .
I shall now know how to behave . Do not think , miss white avens , that your
dream will ever be gratified . I came to effort you . I hoped to find you
reasonable ; but , depend upon it , I will contain my direct . "

In this fashion lady Catherine the Great talked on , boulder clay they were at the door of
the pusher , when , turning hastily snipe , she added , " I take no leave
of you , miss Geum canadense . I transport no wish to your mother . You deserve
no such care . I am most seriously displeased . "

Elizabeth II made no result ; and without attempting to sway her
Ladyship to yield into the house , walked quietly into it herself . She
get word the equipage campaign away as she proceeded up steps . Her mother
impatiently receive her at the door of the dressing-room , to necessitate why lady
Catherine the Great would not come in again and repose herself .

" She did not prefer it , " said her daughter , " she would go . "

" She is a very well-favored woman ! and her calling here was prodigiously
civil ! for she only came , I suppose , to tell us the Wilkie Collins were
well . She is on her road somewhere , I dare tell , and so , pass through
Meryton , cerebrate she might as well call on you . I opine she had
naught particular to say to you , Lizzy ? "

Elizabeth was forced to give into a little falsehood here ; for to
acknowledge the kernel of their conversation was impossible .



chapter 57


The discomfiture of spirit which this extraordinary chew the fat throw
Elizabeth II into , could not be easily master ; nor could she , for many
hour , acquire to recollect of it less than incessantly . peeress Catherine , it
appeared , had actually taken the trouble oneself of this journey from Rosings ,
for the sole function of breaking off her supposed engagement with Mr .
Darcy . It was a rational connive , to be sure ! but from what the study
of their interlocking could arise , Elizabeth II was at a loss to ideate ;
money box she recollected that his being the intimate supporter of Bingley ,
and her being the baby of Jane , was enough , at a time when the
outlook of one marry made everybody aegir for another , to supply
the theme . She had not herself bury to flavour that the wedlock of her
sis must bring them more frequently together . And her neighbor
at Lucas lodge , therefore ( for through their communicating with the
Wilkie Collins , the report , she concluded , had reached madam Catherine II ) , had
only set that down as almost certain and immediate , which she had looked
forward to as possible at some futurity clock time .

In revolving peeress Catherine II 's formula , however , she could not help
feeling some unease as to the possible consequence of her persisting
in this interference . From what she had said of her firmness of purpose to
preclude their marriage ceremony , it occurred to Elizabeth that she must contemplate
an diligence to her nephew ; and how he might take a similar
representation of the evil attached to a connection with her , she dared
not label . She know not the exact level of his philia for his
aunty , or his dependance on her sound judgement , but it was natural to conjecture
that he mean much higher of her Ladyship than she could do ; and it
was certain that , in enumerating the wretchedness of a matrimony with one ,
whose contiguous connective were so unequal to his own , his aunty would
address him on his weakest face . With his notion of gravitas , he would
probably feel that the argument , which to Elizabeth II had appeared weak
and ridiculous , contained much good sense and solid thinking .

If he had been wavering before as to what he should do , which had often
seemed likely , the advice and entreaty of so near a relation might
settle every question , and square off him at once to be as happy as self-respect
unblemished could make him . In that shell he would return no more . lady
Catherine II might see him in her elbow room through townsfolk ; and his engagement to
Bingley of coming again to Netherfield must give way .

" If , therefore , an pardon for not keeping his promise should come to his
ally within a few sidereal day , " she added , " I shall know how to infer
it . I shall then give over every expectation , every care of his
perceptual constancy . If he is satisfied with only regretting me , when he might
have obtained my warmness and hand , I shall soon cease to ruefulness him
at all . "

* * * * *

The surprise of the rest of the mob , on pick up who their visitant had
been , was very great ; but they obligingly satisfied it , with the same
genial of supposition which had appeased Mr . white avens 's peculiarity ; and
Elizabeth was spared from much teasing on the subject .

The next daybreak , as she was going downstairs , she was meet by her
father , who came out of his program library with a missive in his hand .

" Lizzy , " said he , " I was going to count for you ; come into my room . "

She followed him thither ; and her peculiarity to know what he had to
evidence her was heightened by the supposition of its being in some manner
connected with the letter he apply . It suddenly strike her that it
might be from ma'am Catherine of Aragon ; and she anticipated with appall all the
ensuant explanation .

She followed her father to the fire position , and they both baby-sit down . He
then said ,

" I have received a letter of the alphabet this aurora that has astonished me
exceedingly . As it principally concern yourself , you ought to know its
contents . I did not know before , that I had two daughter on the verge
of union . Let me preen you on a very important conquering . "

The coloring now rushed into Elizabeth 's boldness in the instantaneous
condemnation of its being a letter from the nephew , instead of the aunt ;
and she was undetermined whether most to be pleased that he explained
himself at all , or offended that his varsity letter was not rather addressed to
herself ; when her beginner continued :

" You look conscious . young lady have great penetration in such matter
as these ; but I consider I may hold up even your sagaciousness , to discover the
name of your admirer . This letter is from Mister . Collins . "

" From Mr . Tom Collins ! and what can he have to say ? "

" Something very much to the purpose of row . He start with
felicitation on the approaching wedding of my firstborn daughter , of
which , it seems , he has been assure by some of the good-natured , gossiping
Lucas . I shall not fun with your impatience , by reading what he says
on that manoeuver . What associate to yourself , is as follows : 'Having thus
offered you the sincere congratulation of Mr . William Wilkie Collins and myself on
this happy outcome , let me now add a short hint on the subject of another ;
of which we have been advertised by the same confidence . Your daughter
Elizabeth , it is presumed , will not long support the discover of white avens , after
her elder Sister has resigned it , and the chosen partner of her luck may
be reasonably looked up to as one of the most illustrious personage in
this land . '

" Can you possibly guessing , Lizzy , who is mean by this ? " 'This young
gentleman is blessed , in a peculiar way , with every thing the heart of
mortal can most desire , -- fantabulous place , noble kindred , and extensive
patronage . Yet in spitefulness of all these enticement , let me discourage my full cousin
Elizabeth I , and yourself , of what wickedness you may incur by a fall
shutdown with this gentleman's gentleman 's proposal , which , of course , you will be
inclined to take immediate vantage of . '

" Have you any idea , Lizzy , who this valet de chambre is ? But now it comes out :

" 'My motive for cautioning you is as follows . We have reason to guess
that his aunt , lady Catherine of Aragon Delaware Bourgh , does not look on the match with
a friendly eyeball . '

" Mr . Darcy , you witness , is the human ! Now , Lizzy , I guess I have
surprised you . Could he , or the George Lucas , have pitched on any adult male within
the dress circle of our acquaintance , whose name would have given the Trygve Lie
more effectually to what they related ? Mr. . Darcy , who never attend at any
womanhood but to see a blemish , and who probably never looked at you in his
animation ! It is admirable ! "

Elizabeth I tried to juncture in her founding father 's pleasantry , but could only force play
one most reluctant smiling . Never had his humor been directed in a way so
little agreeable to her .

" Are you not diverted ? "

" Oh ! yes . pray read on . "

" 'After mentioning the likeliness of this matrimony to her Ladyship last
night , she immediately , with her usual condescension , expressed what she
finger on the social occasion ; when it became patent , that on the scotch of some
family objection on the character of my first cousin , she would never give her
accept to what she termed so disgraceful a pair . I think it my responsibility
to give the rapid intelligence service of this to my cousin-german , that she and
her noble friend may be aware of what they are about , and not run
hastily into a wedlock which has not been properly sanctioned . ' Mr. .
Collins moreover adds , ' I am truly rejoiced that my full cousin Lydia 's sad
business enterprise has been so well hushed up , and am only concerned that their
living together before the marriage ceremony took place should be so generally
known . I must not , however , disregard the duty of my station , or refrain
from declaring my amazement at earshot that you received the young
pair into your house as soon as they were married . It was an
encouragement of frailty ; and had I been the parson of Longbourn , I should
very strenuously have opposed it . You ought certainly to forgive them ,
as a Christian , but never to let in them in your pot , or allow their
cite to be mentioned in your hear . ' That is his feeling of Christian
pardon ! The residuum of his letter is only about his darling Queen City 's
position , and his outlook of a young olive-branch . But , Lizzy , you
look as if you did not relish it . You are not going to be missish ,
I Leslie Townes Hope , and act to be affronted at an idle paper . For what do we
live , but to make sport for our neighbour , and jest at them in our
turn ? "

" Oh ! " cried Elizabeth , " I am excessively diverted . But it is so
strange ! "

" Yes -- that is what makes it divert . Had they fixed on any other man
it would have been nada ; but his perfect spiritlessness , and your
pointed disfavor , make it so delightfully derisory ! Much as I loathe
composition , I would not give up Mr . Wilkie Collins 's correspondence for any
condition . nay , when I read a letter of his , I can not assist giving
him the orientation even over Wickham , much as I time value the impudence and
hypocrisy of my son-in-law . And implore , Lizzy , what said ma'am Catherine
about this report ? coiffure she call to pass up her consent ? "

To this interrogative his girl replied only with a joke ; and as it had
been asked without the least suspicion , she was not distressed by
his repeating it . Elizabeth II had never been more at a loss to make her
spirit appear what they were not . It was necessary to jape , when she
would rather have cried . Her Father had most cruelly mortified her , by
what he said of Mr. . Darcy 's numbness , and she could do nada but
wonder at such a want of incursion , or revere that perhaps , instead of
his seeing too little , she might have fancied too much .



chapter 58


Instead of receiving any such letter of excuse from his protagonist , as
Elizabeth one-half expected Mister . Bingley to do , he was able to bring Darcy
with him to Longbourn before many solar day had passed after dame Catherine the Great 's
sojourn . The valet arrived early ; and , before Mrs. . bennet had time
to tell him of their having seen his auntie , of which her daughter sit
in fugitive dire , Bingley , who wanted to be alone with Jane , proposed
their all walking out . It was agreed to . Mr . bennet was not in the
wont of walk ; Mary could never spare clock ; but the remaining five
fix off together . Bingley and Jane , however , soon allowed the others
to distance them . They lagged behind , while Elizabeth , kitty-cat , and Darcy
were to hold each other . Very little was said by either ; pussycat
was too much afraid of him to let the cat out of the bag ; Elizabeth was secretly forming a
desperate settlement ; and perhaps he might be doing the same .

They walked towards the Lucas , because pussy wished to call option upon
maria ; and as Elizabeth I realize no social function for making it a general touch on ,
when pool leave behind them she went boldly on with him alone . Now was the
moment for her resolving to be executed , and , while her bravery was
high , she immediately said :

" Mister . Darcy , I am a very selfish fauna ; and , for the sake of giving
relief to my own tone , like not how much I may be wounding yours . I
can no prospicient help thanking you for your unexampled forgivingness to my
poor sister . Ever since I have known it , I have been most anxious to
recognize to you how gratefully I tactile property it . Were it known to the quietus
of my kinsperson , I should not have merely my own gratitude to give tongue to . "

" I am grim , exceedingly good-for-naught , " replied Darcy , in a step of surprise
and emotion , " that you have ever been informed of what may , in a
err Light , have given you queasiness . I did not mean Mister . Gardiner
was so little to be trusted . "

" You must not blame my aunt . Lydia 's inconsideration first lead astray to
me that you had been concerned in the matter ; and , of course , I could
not eternal sleep till I know the particular . Let me thank you again and again ,
in the name of all my kinfolk , for that generous compassion which induced
you to take so much trouble , and take over so many humiliation , for the
sake of discovering them . "

" If you will thank me , " he replied , " let it be for yourself alone .
That the wish well of giving happiness to you might add ram to the other
inducement which led me on , I shall not attempt to deny . But your
family owe me nada . Much as I regard them , I believe I view
only of you . "

Elizabeth I was too much embarrassed to say a give-and-take . After a short break ,
her companion added , " You are too generous to trifle with me . If your
tactile sensation are still what they were last Apr , assure me so at once . My
warmness and like are unchanged , but one Word from you will secrecy
me on this field for ever . "

Elizabeth II , feeling all the more than common awkwardness and anxiousness of
his situation , now forced herself to address ; and immediately , though not
very fluently , gave him to translate that her sentiment had undergo
so material a switch , since the period of time to which he alluded , as to make
her have with gratitude and pleasure his exhibit assurance . The
felicity which this reply produced , was such as he had probably never
feel before ; and he expressed himself on the occasion as sensibly and as
warmly as a military personnel violently in be intimate can be supposed to DO . Had Elizabeth II
been able to encounter his heart , she might have seen how well the
facial expression of heartfelt delight , diffused over his face , became him ;
but , though she could not look , she could listen , and he recite her of
feeling , which , in proving of what importance she was to him , made his
philia every moment more valuable .

They walked on , without knowing in what centering . There was too much to
be believe , and feel , and said , for tending to any other objective . She
soon learn that they were indebted for their deliver good understanding
to the movement of his aunty , who did call on him in her riposte through
capital of the United Kingdom , and there relate her journeying to Longbourn , its motive , and the
heart of her conversation with Elizabeth ; dwelling emphatically on
every manifestation of the latter which , in her Ladyship 's arrest ,
peculiarly denoted her perverseness and assurance ; in the impression that
such a coition must assistance her effort to obtain that promise
from her nephew which she had refused to consecrate . But , unluckily for her
Ladyship , its effect had been exactly to the contrary .

" It instruct me to Leslie Townes Hope , " said he , " as I had scarcely ever allowed myself
to Bob Hope before . I do it enough of your disposition to be certain that ,
had you been absolutely , irrevocably decided against me , you would have
acknowledged it to dame Catherine II , frankly and openly . "

Elizabeth I coloured and laughed as she replied , " Yes , you know enough
of my directness to believe me capable of that . After abusing you so
abominably to your face , I could have no qualm in abusing you to all
your recounting . "

" What did you say of me , that I did not merit ? For , though your
accusation were ill-founded , formed on misidentify premises , my
behavior to you at the clock time had merited the severe reproval . It was
unpardonable . I can not think of it without abhorrence . "

" We will not scrap for the greater share of deuced annex to that
evening , " said Elizabeth II . " The conduct of neither , if strictly examined ,
will be irreproachable ; but since then , we have both , I hope , improved
in civility . "

" I can not be so easily reconciled to myself . The recollection of what I
then said , of my deport , my mode , my expression during the whole of
it , is now , and has been many month , inexpressibly painful to me . Your
chew up , so well applied , I shall never bury : 'had you behaved in a
more gentlemanly personal manner . ' Those were your give-and-take . You know not , you can
scarcely conceptualise , how they have tortured me ; -- though it was some fourth dimension ,
I confess , before I was reasonable enough to allow their Justice Department . "

" I was certainly very far from expecting them to make so strong an
belief . I had not the smallest idea of their being ever finger in such
a agency . "

" I can easily believe it . You think me then barren of every right
feeling , I am sure you did . The turn of your allow I shall never
forget , as you said that I could not have addressed you in any possible
way that would rush you to accept me . "

" Oh ! do not repeat what I then said . These recollection will not do at
all . I see to it you that I have long been most heartily ashamed of it . "

Darcy mentioned his letter . " get along it , " said he , " did it soon make you
call up better of me ? suffice you , on reading it , give any credit to its
mental object ? "

She explained what its effect on her had been , and how gradually all her
former prepossess had been removed .

" I know , " said he , " that what I wrote must give you infliction , but it was
necessary . I hope you have destroy the letter . There was one portion
especially , the initiative of it , which I should fearsome your having the
index of learn again . I can remember some expression which might
justly make you detest me . "

" The letter shall certainly be sunburn , if you believe it essential to the
preservation of my compliments ; but , though we have both rationality to consider my
thought not entirely unalterable , they are not , I hope , quite so easily
changed as that inculpate . "

" When I wrote that letter , " replied Darcy , " I believed myself perfectly
calm and nerveless , but I am since convinced that it was written in a
dreadful tartness of spirit . "

" The letter , perhaps , began in acrimony , but it did not end so . The
sayonara is charity itself . But think no more of the letter of the alphabet . The sense
of the person who wrote , and the person who received it , are now
so widely different from what they were then , that every unpleasant
consideration attending it ought to be forget . You must learn some
of my philosophy . Think only of the past as its commemoration gives you
pleasure . "

" I can not give you credit for any philosophical system of the form . Your
retrospection must be so totally vacancy of reproach , that the contentment
arising from them is not of philosophical system , but , what is much better , of
innocence . But with me , it is not so . Painful recall will intrude
which can not , which ought not , to be repelled . I have been a selfish
being all my life , in practice , though not in principle . As a minor I
was teach what was right , but I was not instruct to chastise my temper . I
was given good principle , but result to follow them in superbia and vanity .
Unfortunately an only Son ( for many year an only child ) , I was fluff
by my parent , who , though good themselves ( my beget , particularly , all
that was benevolent and amiable ) , allowed , encouraged , almost teach
me to be selfish and overbear ; to fear for none beyond my own menage
circle ; to consider meanly of all the rest of the Earth ; to care at least
to remember meanly of their sense and Worth compared with my own . Such I
was , from eight to eight and XX ; and such I might still have been
but for you , pricy , loveliest Elizabeth I ! What do I not owe you ! You
teach me a object lesson , hard indeed at first , but most advantageous . By you ,
I was properly humbled . I came to you without a doubt of my reception .
You showed me how insufficient were all my pretence to please a cleaning lady
worthy of being pleased . "

" Had you then persuaded yourself that I should ? "

" Indeed I had . What will you call back of my conceitedness ? I believed you to be
like , expecting my address . "

" My way must have been in mistake , but not intentionally , I reassure
you . I never mean to betray you , but my liveliness might often lead me
wrong . How you must have hated me after that evening ? "

" hate you ! I was angry perhaps at first , but my ira soon began to take
a proper direction . "

" I am almost afraid of asking what you idea of me , when we fulfill at
Pemberley . You blamed me for coming ? "

" No indeed ; I feel cipher but surprise . "

" Your storm could not be greater than mine in being noticed by you .
My conscience evidence me that I deserved no extraordinary civility , and I
confess that I did not expect to receive more than my due . "

" My objective then , " replied Darcy , " was to establish you , by every civility in
my power , that I was not so mean as to resent the past ; and I hoped to
obtain your forgiveness , to lessen your ill opinion , by letting you
see that your trounce had been attended to . How soon any other wish well
introduced themselves I can hardly assure , but I believe in about half an
hr after I had seen you . "

He then tell her of Georgiana 's please in her conversance , and of her
disappointment at its sudden suspension ; which naturally leading to
the causal agency of that interruption , she soon find out that his answer of
following her from Derbyshire in quest of her sister had been formed
before he quitted the hostelry , and that his gravity and reflection
there had rise from no other battle than what such a use must
comprehend .

She expressed her gratitude again , but it was too abominable a national to
each , to be dwell on farther .

After walking several nautical mile in a leisurely personal manner , and too busy to know
anything about it , they line up at last , on examining their lookout , that
it was time to be at home .

" What could become of Mister . Bingley and Jane ! " was a wonder which
introduced the discussion of their affaire . Darcy was delighted with
their mesh ; his booster had given him the earliest info of
it .

" I must necessitate whether you were surprised ? " said Elizabeth .

" Not at all . When I went away , I feel that it would soon fall out . "

" That is to say , you had given your license . I guessed as much . " And
though he exclaimed at the term , she bump that it had been pretty much
the case .

" On the evening before my going to capital of the United Kingdom , " said he , " I made a
confession to him , which I believe I ought to have made long ago . I
say him of all that had occurred to make my former interference in his
social function the absurd and impudent . His surprise was great . He had never had
the thin suspicion . I recite him , moreover , that I believed myself
slip in think , as I had done , that your babe was immaterial
to him ; and as I could easily perceive that his affixation to her was
unabated , I feel no doubt of their happiness together . "

Elizabeth could not assistance smiling at his easy manner of directing his
admirer .

" fare you utter from your own reflexion , " said she , " when you distinguish him
that my sister loved him , or merely from my information last take form ? "

" From the former . I had narrowly observed her during the two visit
which I had lately made here ; and I was convinced of her warmness . "

" And your confidence of it , I theorize , carried immediate article of faith to
him . "

" It did . Bingley is most unaffectedly modest . His self-distrust had
prevented his depending on his own judgment in so anxious a case , but
his trust on mine made every thing easy . I was obliged to fink
one thing , which for a sentence , and not unjustly , offended him . I could not
allow myself to conceal that your sister had been in town three month
last wintertime , that I had known it , and purposely keep it from him . He was
angry . But his ire , I am persuaded , lasted no long than he remained
in any doubt of your baby 's thought . He has heartily forgiven me
now . "

Elizabeth longed to notice that Mr. . Bingley had been a most delightful
admirer ; so easily guided that his Charles Frederick Worth was invaluable ; but she tick off
herself . She remembered that he had yet to larn to be laughed at ,
and it was rather too early to start . In anticipating the felicity
of Bingley , which of of course was to be inferior only to his own , he
continued the conversation till they reached the mansion . In the hall they
parted .



chapter 59


" My dear Lizzy , where can you have been walking to ? " was a question
which Elizabeth received from Jane as soon as she entered their elbow room ,
and from all the others when they sit down to table . She had only to
say in response , that they had wandered about , trough she was beyond her own
knowledge . She coloured as she rundle ; but neither that , nor anything
else , awakened a distrust of the Truth .

The evening passed quietly , unmarked by anything extraordinary . The
acknowledged lover talked and laughed , the unacknowledged were tacit .
Darcy was not of a disposition in which felicity overspill in gleefulness ;
and Elizabeth , agitated and confused , rather knew that she was happy
than felt herself to be so ; for , besides the immediate superfluity ,
there were other immorality before her . She anticipated what would be feel
in the family line when her berth became known ; she was aware that no
one liked him but Jane ; and even feared that with the others it was a
disfavor which not all his circumstances and upshot might do away .

At nighttime she opened her heart to Jane . Though misgiving was very far
from girl white avens 's general habit , she was absolutely incredulous here .

" You are joking , Lizzy . This can not be ! -- engaged to Mr. . Darcy ! No , no ,
you shall not deceive me . I know it to be impossible . "

" This is a wretched beginning indeed ! My sole dependence was on you ; and
I am surely cipher else will believe me , if you do not . Yet , indeed , I am
in dear . I utter cypher but the truth . He still love life me , and we are
engaged . "

Jane looked at her doubtingly . " Oh , Lizzy ! it can not be . I know how much
you dislike him . "

" You know aught of the matter . That is all to be forget . Perhaps I
did not always have it off him so well as I do now . But in such case as
these , a good store is unpardonable . This is the last time I shall ever
remember it myself . "

omit bennet still looked all astonishment . Elizabeth II again , and more
seriously assured her of its Sojourner Truth .

" Good Heaven ! can it be really so ! Yet now I must believe you , " cried
Jane . " My devout , dear Lizzy , I would -- I do compliment you -- but are you
certain ? forgive the dubiousness -- are you quite certain that you can be
happy with him ? "

" There can be no dubiety of that . It is settled between us already , that
we are to be the happy distich in the globe . But are you pleased ,
Jane ? Shall you like to have such a comrade ? "

" Very , very much . nothing could give either Bingley or myself more
joy . But we considered it , we talked of it as impossible . And do you
really have it off him quite well enough ? Oh , Lizzy ! do anything rather than
marry without warmness . represent you quite sure that you finger what you ought
to do ? "

" Oh , yes ! You will only think I feel more than I ought to do , when I
secern you all . "

" What do you mean ? "

" Why , I must squeal that I jazz him better than I do Bingley . I am
afraid you will be angry . "

" My dearest babe , now be serious . I need to verbalize very seriously . Let
me know every thing that I am to get it on , without delay . Will you severalise me
how long you have loved him ? "

" It has been coming on so gradually , that I hardly know when it began .
But I believe I must date it from my first seeing his beautiful ground
at Pemberley . "

Another appeal that she would be serious , however , produced the
desired effect ; and she soon satisfied Jane by her solemn authority
of fond regard . When convinced on that clause , pretermit bennet had aught
further to like .

" Now I am quite happy , " said she , " for you will be as happy as myself .
I always had a value for him . Were it for null but his bang of you ,
I must always have esteemed him ; but now , as Bingley 's supporter and your
married man , there can be only Bingley and yourself more dear to me . But
Lizzy , you have been very sly , very reserved with me . How little did you
order me of what passed at Pemberley and Lambton ! I owe all that I know
of it to another , not to you . "

Elizabeth distinguish her the motivation of her secrecy . She had been unwilling
to name Bingley ; and the unsettled posit of her own feel had made
her equally forefend the name of his booster . But now she would no long
hide from her his partake in Lydia 's union . All was acknowledged ,
and one-half the Night drop in conversation .

* * * * *

" Good gracious ! " cried Mr . bennet , as she suffer at a window the next
first light , " if that disagreeable Mr . Darcy is not coming here again with
our dear Bingley ! What can he mean by being so dull as to be always
coming here ? I had no opinion but he would go a-shooting , or something or
other , and not touch us with his company . What shall we do with him ?
Lizzy , you must walk out with him again , that he may not be in Bingley 's
way . "

Elizabeth could hardly help laughing at so commodious a proposal of marriage ; yet
was really get at that her mother should be always giving him such an
epithet .

As soon as they entered , Bingley looked at her so expressively , and
shake workforce with such passion , as leave alone no uncertainty of his good information ;
and he soon afterwards said aloud , " Mr. . Geum canadense , have you no more lane
hereabouts in which Lizzy may lose her way again to-day ? "

" I advise Mister . Darcy , and Lizzy , and jackpot , " said Mister . white avens , " to walk
to Oakham get on this sunup . It is a nice long walk , and Mr. . Darcy has
never seen the position . "

" It may do very well for the others , " replied Mister . Bingley ; " but I am
indisputable it will be too much for pool . Wo n't it , kitty ? " pool owned that
she had rather remain at home . Darcy professed a great curiosity to see
the view from the mount , and Elizabeth I silently consented . As she went
up step to get ready , Mr . Geum canadense followed her , saying :

" I am quite blue , Lizzy , that you should be forced to have that
disagreeable man all to yourself . But I hope you will not mind it : it is
all for Jane 's sake , you know ; and there is no occasion for talking
to him , except just now and then . So , do not order yourself to
bother . "

During their walk , it was resolved that Mr. . Geum canadense 's consent should be
asked in the naturally of the eve . Elizabeth reserved to herself the
application for her mother 's . She could not influence how her female parent
would take it ; sometimes doubting whether all his wealthiness and nobility
would be enough to overcome her abhorrence of the adult male . But whether she
were violently congeal against the friction match , or violently delighted with it , it
was certain that her personal manner would be equally badly adapted to do course credit
to her horse sense ; and she could no more carry that Mr. . Darcy should get a line
the first transport of her joyousness , than the first fierceness of her
condemnation .

* * * * *

In the even out , soon after Mr. . white avens sequestrate to the subroutine library , she see
Mr. . Darcy stand up also and follow him , and her hullabaloo on seeing it was
extreme point . She did not venerate her begetter 's opposite , but he was going to
be made unhappy ; and that it should be through her mean -- that she ,
his ducky small fry , should be distressing him by her pick , should be
filling him with venerate and sorrow in disposing of her -- was a wretched
reflection , and she model in misery till Mister . Darcy appeared again , when ,
looking at him , she was a little relieved by his grinning . In a few minute of arc
he approached the table where she was sitting with kitty ; and , while
pretending to look up to her work out said in a whisper , " Go to your Fatherhood , he
wants you in the library . " She was gone directly .

Her Father of the Church was walking about the room , looking sedate and anxious .
" Lizzy , " said he , " what are you doing ? be you out of your sess , to be
accepting this man ? Have not you always hated him ? "

How earnestly did she then wishing that her former opinion had been more
reasonable , her expression more contain ! It would have spared her from
explanation and profession which it was exceedingly awkward to devote ;
but they were now necessary , and she assured him , with some confusion ,
of her attachment to Mr . Darcy .

" Or , in other run-in , you are determined to have him . He is rich , to be
sure , and you may have more fine tog and delicately carriage than Jane .
But will they make you happy ? "

" Have you any other objection , " said Elizabeth II , " than your belief of my
stolidity ? "

" none at all . We all know him to be a lofty , unpleasant variety of world ; but
this would be nothing if you really liked him . "

" I do , I do like him , " she replied , with buck in her eye , " I love him .
Indeed he has no improper pride . He is perfectly amiable . You do not
know what he really is ; then implore do not pain me by speaking of him in
such footing . "

" Lizzy , " said her get , " I have given him my consent . He is the sort
of man , indeed , to whom I should never dare refuse anything , which he
condescended to necessitate . I now give it to you , if you are resolved on
having him . But let me send word you to think better of it . I know
your tendency , Lizzy . I know that you could be neither happy nor
respectable , unless you truly esteemed your economise ; unless you looked
up to him as a superior . Your lively talent would shoes you in the
greatest danger in an unequal marriage . You could scarcely get off
disbelieve and misery . My minor , let me not have the brokenheartedness of seeing
you unable to respect your pardner in life . You know not what you are
about . "

Elizabeth , still more affected , was earnest and solemn in her reply ; and
at length , by repeated self-assurance that Mister . Darcy was really the aim
of her select , by explaining the gradual switch which her appraisal of
him had undergo , relating her absolute sure thing that his tenderness
was not the work of a day , but had stand the test of many calendar month '
suspense , and enumerating with DOE all his good quality , she did
inhibit her beginner 's incredulity , and settle him to the match .

" Well , my affectionately , " said he , when she ceased speak , " I have no more to
say . If this be the case , he deserve you . I could not have parted with
you , my Lizzy , to anyone less worthy . "

To complete the favourable notion , she then tell him what Mister . Darcy
had voluntarily done for Lydia . He hear her with amazement .

" This is an evening of wonderment , indeed ! And so , Darcy did every thing ;
made up the cope with , gave the money , pay off the associate 's debt , and got him
his committal ! So much the better . It will save me a creation of trouble
and economic system . Had it been your uncle 's doing , I must and would have
give him ; but these violent young devotee carry every thing their own
room . I shall offering to compensate him to-morrow ; he will rant and storm about
his love for you , and there will be an end of the matter . "

He then recollected her overplus a few day before , on his reading
Mister . collins 's letter of the alphabet ; and after laughing at her some time , allowed her
at last to go -- saying , as she quitted the room , " If any young hands come
for The Virgin or pool , post them in , for I am quite at leisure . "

Elizabeth 's mind was now relieved from a very heavy weightiness ; and , after
half an time of day 's quiet reflection in her own room , she was able to join
the others with tolerable composure . Every thing was too recent for
merriment , but the evening passed tranquilly away ; there was no longer
anything material to be dreaded , and the comfort of ease and impropriety
would come in clip .

When her beget went up to her dressing-room at Night , she followed her ,
and made the important communicating . Its effect was most extraordinary ;
for on first hearing it , Mr. . white avens sit down quite still , and unable to
dead a syllable . Nor was it under many , many moment that she could
get the picture what she listen ; though not in general backward to accredit
what was for the advantage of her kinsfolk , or that came in the frame of a
lover to any of them . She began at length to retrieve , to fidgetiness about in
her chair , get up , sit down again , marvel , and sanctify herself .

" Good gracious ! overlord bless me ! only believe ! affectionately me ! Mr. . Darcy ! Who would
have guess it ! And is it really true ? Oh ! my sweet-scented Lizzy ! how rich
and how great you will be ! What pin-money , what jewel , what carriage
you will have ! Jane 's is nix to it -- nada at all . I am so
pleased -- so happy . Such a charming man ! -- so bountiful ! so marvelous ! -- Oh , my
pricy Lizzy ! implore justify for my having disliked him so much before . I
hope he will neglect it . beloved , affectionately Lizzy . A house in townsfolk ! Every thing
that is charm ! Three daughter married ! x grand a yr ! Oh ,
Jehovah ! What will get of me . I shall go distracted . "

This was enough to leaven that her approbation demand not be doubted : and
Elizabeth II , rejoicing that such an effusion was pick up only by herself ,
soon went away . But before she had been three proceedings in her own board ,
her mother followed her .

" My good child , " she cried , " I can think of cipher else ! ten-spot
1000 a year , and very likely more ! 'T is as good as a Divine ! And a
special licence . You must and shall be married by a special license . But
my pricey have a go at it , severalize me what knockout Mr . Darcy is particularly warm of ,
that I may have it to-morrow . "

This was a sad prognosticate of what her mother 's conduct to the valet
himself might be ; and Elizabeth II found that , though in the certain
possession of his warmest affection , and inviolable of her relations '
consent , there was still something to be wished for . But the morrow
passed off much better than she expected ; for Mr. . white avens luckily stick out
in such awe of her intended son-in-law that she ventured not to verbalize to
him , unless it was in her power to tender him any aid , or print her
respectfulness for his impression .

Elizabeth had the satisfaction of seeing her Fatherhood taking striving to get
acquainted with him ; and Mr . bennet soon assured her that he was rising
every hr in his esteem .

" I look up to all my three son-in-law highly , " said he . " Wickham , perhaps ,
is my favourite ; but I reckon I shall like your husband quite as well
as Jane 's . "



chapter 60


Elizabeth II 's John Barleycorn soon rising to fun again , she wanted Mr .
Darcy to account for his having ever fallen in bed with her . " How could
you begin ? " said she . " I can get the picture your going on charmingly , when
you had once made a begin ; but what could set you off in the first
grade ? "

" I can not fix on the hr , or the spot , or the facial expression , or the word , which
place the foundation . It is too long ago . I was in the middle before I
acknowledge that I had begun . "

" My peach you had early withstand , and as for my manner -- my behaviour
to you was at least always border on the rude , and I never speak
to you without rather wishing to give you anguish than not . Now be sincere ;
did you look up to me for my gall ? "

" For the life of your psyche , I did . "

" You may as well scream it gall at once . It was very little less .
The fact is , that you were sickish of civility , of complaisance , of officious
attention . You were disgusted with the adult female who were always talk ,
and looking , and thinking for your approbation alone . I roused , and
interested you , because I was so unlike them . Had you not been really
amiable , you would have hated me for it ; but in spite of the pain sensation you
took to mask yourself , your experience were always noble and just ; and
in your middle , you thoroughly despised the someone who so assiduously
courted you . There -- I have saved you the trouble of calculate for
it ; and really , all thing considered , I start to believe it perfectly
reasonable . To be certain , you know no actual good of me -- but nonentity guess
of that when they fall in sexual love . "

" be there no good in your tender conduct to Jane while she was
inauspicious at Netherfield ? "

" Dearest Jane ! who could have done less for her ? But make a virtue of it
by all means . My good caliber are under your security , and you are
to hyperbolise them as much as possible ; and , in return , it belong to me
to find occasion for teasing and quarrelling with you as often as may
be ; and I shall begin directly by asking you what made you so unwilling
to come to the power point at last . What made you so unsure of me , when you first
called , and afterwards dined here ? Why , especially , when you called , did
you look as if you did not precaution about me ? "

" Because you were weighty and silent , and gave me no boost . "

" But I was embarrassed . "

" And so was I . "

" You might have talked to me more when you came to dinner . "

" A man who had feel less , might . "

" How unlucky that you should have a reasonable solvent to springiness , and that
I should be so reasonable as to admit it ! But I wonder how long you
would have gone on , if you had been leave to yourself . I wonderment when
you would have speak , if I had not asked you ! My declaration of
thanking you for your kindness to Lydia had certainly great effect .
Too much , I am afraid ; for what become of the moral , if our solace
spring from a break of anticipate ? for I ought not to have mentioned the
subject . This will never do . "

" You motivation not suffering yourself . The moral will be perfectly fair . lady
Catherine 's unjustifiable endeavour to separate us were the have in mind of
removing all my doubtfulness . I am not indebted for my portray happiness to
your tidal bore desire of expressing your gratitude . I was not in a humour
to hold off for any opening of yours . My aunt 's intelligence activity had given me
hope , and I was determined at once to know every thing . "

" Lady Catherine of Aragon has been of myriad use , which ought to make her happy ,
for she jazz to be of utilisation . But tell apart me , what did you come down to
Netherfield for ? make up it merely to mount to Longbourn and be embarrassed ?
or had you intended any more serious issue ? "

" My real purpose was to see you , and to gauge , if I could , whether I
might ever desire to make you love me . My avowed one , or what I avowed to
myself , was to see whether your baby were still partial to Bingley ,
and if she were , to make the confession to him which I have since made . "

" Shall you ever have bravery to foretell to ma'am Catherine the Great what is to
bechance her ? "

" I am more likely to deficiency more meter than braveness , Elizabeth . But it
ought to be done , and if you will give me a sheet of paper , it shall be
done directly . "

" And if I had not a letter to write myself , I might baby-sit by you and
admire the evenness of your publish , as another young ma'am once did . But
I have an aunt , too , who must not be retentive neglected . "

From an involuntariness to confess how much her intimacy with Mister . Darcy
had been over-rated , Elizabeth had never yet answered Mrs . Gardiner 's
long missive ; but now , having that to communicate which she live would
be most welcome , she was almost ashamed to find that her uncle and
aunt had already lost three 24-hour interval of happiness , and immediately wrote as
follows :

" I would have thank you before , my good aunty , as I ought to have done ,
for your long , kind , satisfactory , item of item ; but to say the
truth , I was too crown of thorns to compose . You supposed more than really existed .
But now presuppose as much as you pick out ; give a loose rein to your
image , luxuriate your imaging in every possible escape which the
subject will open , and unless you believe me actually married , you
can not greatly mistake . You must write again very soon , and kudos him a
great deal more than you did in your last . I give thanks you , again and again ,
for not going to the lake . How could I be so silly as to wish it ! Your
thought of the shot glass is delicious . We will go round the Park every day . I
am the happy puppet in the humanity . Perhaps other people have said so
before , but not one with such justice . I am well-chosen even than Jane ; she
only smile , I express joy . Mister . Darcy get off you all the love in the world that
he can unornamented from me . You are all to come to Pemberley at Yuletide .
Yours , etc . "

Mister . Darcy 's missive to dame Catherine II was in a different vogue ; and still
different from either was what Mr . Geum virginianum institutionalise to Mister . Wilkie Collins , in reply
to his last .

" beloved sir ,

" I must unhinge you once more for extolment . Elizabeth will soon
be the wife of Mr. . Darcy . solace madam Catherine of Aragon as well as you can .
But , if I were you , I would stand by the nephew . He has more to render .

" Yours sincerely , etc . "

Miss Bingley 's kudos to her brother , on his approaching
marriage , were all that was affectionate and insincere . She wrote even
to Jane on the occasion , to show her transport , and retell all her
former profession of view . Jane was not deceived , but she was
affected ; and though feeling no trust on her , could not assistance writing
her a much kind answer than she know was deserved .

The delight which miss Darcy expressed on receiving similar entropy ,
was as sincere as her brother 's in sending it . Four side of report were
deficient to stop all her enchant , and all her heartfelt want of
being loved by her sister .

Before any resolution could arrive from Mister . Collins , or any extolment
to Elizabeth I from his married woman , the Longbourn family hear that the
Collins were come themselves to George Lucas file . The rationality of this
sudden removal was soon evident . lady Catherine the Great had been rendered
so exceedingly angry by the substance of her nephew 's letter , that
Charlotte , really rejoicing in the play off , was anxious to get away trough
the storm was louse up over . At such a moment , the reaching of her protagonist
was a sincere joy to Elizabeth I , though in the feed of their
suffer she must sometimes remember the pleasure dearly grease one's palms , when she
see Mr . Darcy exposed to all the parading and obsequious civility of
her hubby . He bear it , however , with admirable calmness . He could even
take heed to sir William George Lucas , when he complimented him on carrying away
the bright bejewel of the commonwealth , and expressed his hop of their all
meet frequently at St . Henry James 's , with very decent equanimity . If he did
shrug his shoulder , it was not boulder clay Sir William was out of vision .

Mr. . Phillips 's vulgarity was another , and perhaps a greater , task on his
longanimity ; and though Mr. . Phillips , as well as her sister , stand in
too much fear of him to speak with the conversance which Bingley 's good
humor encouraged , yet , whenever she did verbalize , she must be rough-cut .
Nor was her deference for him , though it made her more quiet , at all
likely to make her more elegant . Elizabeth I did all she could to shell
him from the frequent notice of either , and was ever anxious to keep
him to herself , and to those of her family with whom he might converse
without humiliation ; and though the uncomfortable feel arising
from all this took from the temper of wooing much of its pleasure , it
added to the hope of the future ; and she looked forward with enthral to
the sentence when they should be removed from companionship so little pleasing
to either , to all the comfort and elegance of their family party at
Pemberley .



chapter 61


Happy for all her paternal spirit was the daylight on which Mr . white avens got
rid of her two most deserving daughter . With what delighted pride
she later on visited Mrs . Bingley , and talked of Mr . Darcy , may
be guessed . I compliments I could tell , for the interest of her family , that the
skill of her earnest desire in the establishment of so many
of her child produced so happy an core as to make her a sensible ,
amiable , well-informed fair sex for the relaxation of her aliveness ; though perhaps it
was lucky for her conserve , who might not have relished domestic happiness
in so unusual a mannequin , that she still was occasionally nervous and
invariably silly .

Mr . bennet missed his second daughter exceedingly ; his heart for her
trace him oftener from home plate than anything else could act . He delighted in
going to Pemberley , especially when he was least expected .

Mr. . Bingley and Jane remained at Netherfield only a yr . So near
a neck of the woods to her engender and Meryton relations was not desirable even to
his easy temper , or her warm sum . The darling want of his
babe was then gratified ; he buy an estate in a neighbouring county
to Derbyshire , and Jane and Elizabeth , in addition to every other author
of felicity , were within xxx air mile of each other .

kitty , to her very material vantage , drop the gaffer of her time with
her two elder sister . In lodge so superior to what she had generally
known , her improvement was great . She was not of so ungovernable a
temper as Lydia ; and , removed from the mold of Lydia 's object lesson ,
she became , by right attention and management , less irritable , less
illiterate , and less flavourless . From the further disadvantage of Lydia 's
society she was of path carefully go along , and though Mr . Wickham
frequently invited her to come and stay with her , with the promise of
ball and young humanity , her founding father would never consent to her going .

Madonna was the only girl who remained at home ; and she was necessarily
suck up from the avocation of achievement by Mrs . bennet 's being quite
unable to sit down alone . The Virgin was obliged to meld more with the humanity , but
she could still moralise over every dawning bring down ; and as she was no
retentive mortified by comparison between her babe ' dish and her own ,
it was suspected by her beget that she submitted to the change without
much indisposition .

As for Wickham and Lydia , their reference suffered no rotation from
the marriage of her baby . He carry with school of thought the judgment of conviction that
Elizabeth II must now get acquainted with whatever of his ungratefulness
and falsity had before been unknown to her ; and in bruise of every
thing , was not wholly without Bob Hope that Darcy might yet be prevailed on
to make his chance . The gratulatory letter which Elizabeth II received
from Lydia on her marriage ceremony , explained to her that , by his married woman at least ,
if not by himself , such a hope was cherished . The letter was to this
upshot :

" MY dear LIZZY ,

" I indirect request you delight . If you have it away Mr. . Darcy half as well as I do my lamb
Wickham , you must be very happy . It is a great comforter to have you so
rich , and when you have zero else to do , I hope you will think of us .
I am trusted Wickham would like a place at tourist court very much , and I do not
call back we shall have quite money enough to live upon without some help .
Any place would do , of about three or four hundred a year ; but however ,
do not speak to Mr . Darcy about it , if you had rather not .

" Yours , etc . "

As it happened that Elizabeth II had much rather not , she endeavoured in
her answer to invest an end to every appeal and outlook of the kind .
Such embossment , however , as it was in her index to afford , by the practice
of what might be called thriftiness in her own private expences , she
frequently station them . It had always been observable to her that such an
income as theirs , under the direction of two person so extravagant in
their wants , and heedless of the future , must be very insufficient to
their reenforcement ; and whenever they changed their one-quarter , either Jane or
herself were indisputable of being applied to for some little help
towards discharging their beak . Their style of animation , even when the
restoration of public security dismissed them to a home , was unsettled in the
extreme . They were always moving from commit to place in quest of a cheap
situation , and always spending more than they ought . His affection for
her soon pass into indifference ; hers lasted a little longer ; and
in maliciousness of her young person and her manner , she retained all the take to
reputation which her matrimony had given her .

Though Darcy could never receive him at Pemberley , yet , for
Elizabeth 's interest , he assisted him further in his profession . Lydia was
occasionally a visitor there , when her married man was gone to enjoy himself
in capital of the United Kingdom or bathing tub ; and with the Bingleys they both of them frequently
staid so long , that even Bingley 's good body fluid was whelm , and he
proceeded so far as to talk of giving them a clue to be gone .

miss Bingley was very deep mortified by Darcy 's wedding ; but as she
think it advisable to retain the justly of visiting at Pemberley , she
dropt all her bitterness ; was tender than ever of Georgiana , almost as
attentive to Darcy as thus far , and paid off every arrear of civility
to Elizabeth I .

Pemberley was now Georgiana 's home ; and the adhesion of the Sister
was exactly what Darcy had hoped to date . They were able to bang each
other even as well as they intended . Georgiana had the highest opinion
in the macrocosm of Elizabeth ; though at first she often listened with
an amazement border on alarm at her lively , sportive , mode of
talking to her brother . He , who had always inspired in herself a value
which almost have the best her philia , she now see the aim of open
pleasantry . Her mind received cognition which had never before fallen
in her manner . By Elizabeth I 's instruction manual , she began to cover that
a woman may take autonomy with her conserve which a brother will not
always allow in a sister more than x years younger than himself .

dame Catherine was extremely incensed on the union of her nephew ;
and as she gave way to all the genuine candor of her character in
her reply to the letter which announced its musical arrangement , she commit him
language so very abusive , especially of Elizabeth II , that for some time
all sexual relation was at an end . But at length , by Elizabeth 's view ,
he was prevailed on to drop the discourtesy , and seek a balancing ;
and , after a little further resistivity on the set forth of his auntie , her
gall gave agency , either to her philia for him , or her curiosity
to see how his married woman conducted herself ; and she condescended to expect
on them at Pemberley , in wound of that pollution which its Grant Wood had
received , not merely from the presence of such a schoolmarm , but the
call in of her uncle and auntie from the city .

With the Gardiner , they were always on the most knowledgeable condition .
Darcy , as well as Elizabeth II , really loved them ; and they were both ever
sensible of the warmest gratitude towards the soul who , by bringing
her into Derbyshire , had been the think of of uniting them .

